naked's what i call my way of cooking.  what i cook in the restaurant isn't what i cook at home.  cooking's gotta be a laugh.  it's gotta be simple  - it's gotta be tasty - it's gotta be fun.  i suppose you could say it's stripping down the recipe to its bare essentials.  no way - it's not me it's the food.  right i've gotta have something to eat before i do anything else.  i'm gonna have a bacon sarnie for breakie  so what i've don't is i've got one of the grill pans and they're quite cheap -  i use it all the time now just for like - meat, fish - so easy.  anyway look i've got this bread here - and er -  i get 'em to slice it on the machine but you know you get in there  and get a normal bread loaf and you get it cut across into the normal round,  well i do it the other way and i say can you put it through the long way.  so what you get is this... look at that...  have you got a big day today then?  i've got a huge day.  i used to be in this band when i was from 14 to 17 -  then i moved to london to sort of work in the kitchens and stuff and er -  we never really spoke -  well we spoke on the phone every now and again - that was it.  but about six months ago they all moved to london -  so we kind of got it back together again.  we've got the first gig tonight mate.  what instrument do you play?  i'm a cliche drummer - little bit hyperactive -  talks rubbish most of the time - big fidgety - what can i say?  right i'm just gonna push this bacon to one side now  cos that's cooked and it looks lovely.  and i'm gonna get this bread and i'm gonna toast it - on here -  instead of toasting it normally i'm gonna toast it on this grill pan  and that's gonna suck up a little bit of all -  the fat and the juices that comes up from the bacon.  do you always use white bread?  no - i don't - well - yeah.  i don't like brown bread.  my mum always tried to get me on it but i don't like it at all.  are the band coming back to eat this evening?  yeah i'm gonna cook er -  a thai green curry which is pretty appropriate really  curries are kind of like the english boys  or essex boys sort of ultimate after - after pub food.  right this is about done now.  right i'm just gonna eat this and then i've gotta go shopping  and get stuck in cos i've got a lot to do.    so what i'm gonna make is a thai green curry yeah -  and for that we have to make a green paste.  it's very quick to make and very quick to cook.  well there's a little bit of preparation at this point er -  so what we're gonna do is we've got spring onions here -  i use about five or six.  could you use normal onion?  yeah use normal onions - shallots  and then lemon grass  basically what we want is the inside where it's slightly white -  slightly softer - loads of flavour - really zesty.  so i'm just gonna trim off the bottom  and then just trim off the end until the tender quite of the root  which about normally about half way down  and you just want to strip the outside leave off - cos they're quite tough.  it's a really delicate flavour - er -  and even if you just put in with steamed rice  and stuff like that the flavour of it really kicks all the way through.  it's lovely.  split in half and just cut into about four bits.  all these together make a really good taste yeah  but if there's an ingredient that you particularly like -  like i'm getting quite partial to the old lime leaves -just up 'em a bit.  but this is - this is a good one that i like.  then i need some garlic.  two or three -just peel 'em - we can leave them whole.  ooops - oh no -  then i've got the ginger yeah -  thing to look out for when you get the ginger is you want  a nice big fat old hand of ginger -  cos sometimes you have to root around these poxy little bits  and they're just stringy and dried up and horrible.  nice thick bit - and just rip it off -  you can peel it with a peeler or use a knife.  right - so we wanna about that much you know about a tablespoon's worth.  and that's another thing done.  right we've got limes yeah - lovely, lovely limes.  just peel off a little bit of the skin  cos the skin's quite fragrant and there's no -  you know no point in chucking it away.  i've got these really pucker chillies.  i'm gonna use about four or five -  again up it or lower it as to what you like.  i'm just gonna take the ends off - and i'm gonna cut them in half.  do you think there's quite a macho element into how hot you like your food?  yeah - well -er - i suppose when you go out with the boys  and you get a bit bevved - it does -  well - it's been know to turn into a bit of a competition like  who can have the hottest curry, but i just love chillies though so much.  the really really hot curries they use the whole chillie which are these seeds,  but it's hot but it doesn't really taste of chillie.  if you take the seeds out - you get a nice warmth there -  but the actual taste of chillie comes through.  right so next we're gonna use lime leaves and they're kind of unusual -  you get 'em in every single thai or chinese supermarket  and you're starting to get 'em in the supermarkets now  but these make such a difference -  they've got a really authentic flavour,  and i just wanna a little handful like that much  and you buy them in bags like this and you can freeze 'em  and they keep so well in the freezer.  take any big bits of stalk that are off  and you just roll 'em up like a little cigar and er -  just chuck 'em across - just to help the machine a bit...  right so i've this coriander here  and you know you want about sort of three really good handfuls of this -  so that bunch is perfect and basil -  just rip the stalks off - leave some of them on.  and we wanna about you know two really good handfuls of basil -  so we've got lots of fragrance there you know.  coriander seeds -  about a little handful or you know tablespoon  and a half and just crack them in half -  you don't want to smash 'em up to a powder.  lovely. right this is the easy bit.  just take it over to the mixer  get me olive oil.  put my ginger and the kind of the rougher things -  the sort of tougher things.  so i've got the garlic in there, the garlic, the spring onions.  the things that are gonna give the machine a little bit more work -  just pulse it up basically as fine as you can.  add a good good pinch of salt and a bit of pepper -  coriander in - coriander seeds.  right so just cut these limes in half and just squeeze all the juice in there -  all these herbs - ...just push it all down.  put about two tablespoons - three tablespoons worth of oil in.  just leave it go for a couple of minutes.  basically that's done now. it smells absolutely outrageous.  will you use all that paste for the curry?  i probably will use all this paste  cos i want you know i'm gonna put coconut milk in -  i want lots of sort of juice - but i tell you what -  even if i'm cooking for myself -  i still cook this much  because all you have to do is jar it in an airtight container -  bit of oil over the top so the air doesn't get to it  and it keeps for weeks in the fridge.  right - i've got this really nice chicken breasts yeah -  they're free range of course - but you know get what you can.  would you use the green paste with any different sort of curry -  you don't have to use chicken?  the green paste? -   oh god the green paste - you can do so much with this -  i mean you can basically -  you can marinate like kebabs or something  and just have the paste on its own and like barbecue it in the summer -  just put some lime juice over it afterwards.  use it with prawns to do sort of prawn curries - er -  sort of you know just brush bits of fish with it  and just sort of grill it really quickly.  so i'm just gonna cut them at a sort of angle -  quite big bits and that'll make a sort of a big bit of surface area  so it can have a nice marinade clinging to it.  i'm gonna take about i suppose a spoonful -  a couple of tablespoons of the m... of the paste -  and -just put that in there.  i'm gonna put the chicken in with it and i'm just gonna toss it over  and i only want it to lightly coat it.  so you don't put the chicken in all the marinade?  no cos i just - i want the flavour to impregnate the meat  i also want to just give it that -  initially when i cook it i wanna give it that sear in a wok -  and if i've got too much of this in it it's gonna boil.  lovely - so this -  i'm gonna give this about  that's the minimum you wanna give it really.  but anything from 20 minutes to 2 hours is great.  right so i'm gonna cook the curry now - it's very very simple.  i've got a hot wok -  get your meat ready - get your paste ready.  coconut milk - nearly forgot.  put my oil straight in - put it round the sides.  what sort of oil is that?  just normal sort of vegetable oil. in with the meat -  and just like - push it about -  we're just gonna cook it like this for about 2/3 minutes -  just so we searing a little bit of colour in and that - that's nice for flavour.  if you didn't have a wok could you do it a saucepan or something?  yeah of course you can -  do it in like a casserole type pan - get it really hot again.  exactly the same and then - i'm gonna get this paste -  get it all in there and this is where really you stop frying -  and start sort of boiling it now.  so just smear over that green paste.  just for like 30 seconds or something and then we'll add this coconut milk.  brilliant.  and just stir it all in...  right - so basically i'm gonna bring it to the boil -  right - let it simmer for about 12/13 minutes -  just until the chicken's nice and tender - and er - that's it - it's done.  just season it to taste - a bit of lime - get some sort of shaved coconut in there -  chopped pistachios nuts and some coriander just to freshen it up at the last minute  and i think the band will really - i think they're gonna love it.      i'm gonna make this really excellent salad that goes with the green curry -  the green curry being quite fragrant and hot and this salad being quite clean.  so what i've got here is just some really nice  deep red perfectly ripe cherry tomatoes and i'm just cutting them in quarters -  you can do 'em in halves if you want.  i've got a fresh coconut -  we don't want any of that desiccated stuff.  er - and as you can buy these absolutely anywhere -  markets - supermarkets - whatever -  it's much better and much more authentic to use these.  if you wanna keep the milk you can -  we put - we only actually need half a coconut.  i can save this and scrap it onto the curry later or just keep it.  do something else with it.  so just cut if up into bits -  and slice it as thinly as possible in any old fashion really.  you can see it's such a wicked colour.  really tasty and...  tastes so much different to the dried stuff -  don't even think about it.  different textures as well - it's not just taste.  lovely - right so just chuck this in.  next thing you need is we've got cucumber  and i need about - about half a cucumber.  just peel this and then i'm gonna cut it in half  and we want to remove this little bit in here which is really watery -  tastes of kind of nothing really.  really don't want it - and you get a spoon -  scoop it out or you can get a knife -  just go in at an angle very gently - go in at an angle here.  just kind of turf it out and just kind of use your fingers  till you can see all that - just water - you don't want that.  i quite like to sort of cut it in half again -  just do it in thin like kind of length ways bits like that  and then just cut it in half again - i just kind of think that size is perfect.  you know you want it the same as the...?  what else might you serve this salad with?  well it's a very refreshing salad so you always do it with light things -  things like er -  simply grilled piece of fish - you know white fish preferably.  simply grilled chicken - er -  cheeses you know - feta cheese, ricotta, mozzarella - really nice.  yeah just -just simple things really.  er - so what we're gonna do now - i've got some nice basil -  really fragrant that i bought and i've washed it -  i just wanna about that much and that's -  it's quite strong and it's really fresh  and we're gonna get loads and loads of flavour our of that so just -  just slice it up - get that stuck in there.  like you can smell it already do you know what i mean? -   it's lovely jubbly.  could you use any other herbs?  yep - you could use coriander which is lovely - coriander and basil -  but i've got a lot of coriander in the green curry  and i wanna keep the flavours separate  so i think that makes sense do you know what i mean.  right so what i wanna do now is dress - dress it like a normal salad -  a good pinch of pepper - a good pinch of salt -  and i'm gonna use limes - two limes and that's gonna give it a -  as opposed to lemon it's gonna be really zingy.  something that will help get the juice out is just to put your weight on it  and roll it like that - roll it off and...  you've got that fragrance of the skin straight away and you can peel the skin -  finely chop it and just put it in a pan with some fish -  panned fried fish or something like that - that'll work brilliantly.  but i don't want the skin.  i just want the juice and just shove your hand inside  and give it a good old squeeze.  and then you wanna put about the same amount of olive oil as the lime juice -  er - and now just give it a little toss over.  or you can mix it - or get your hand stuck in -  just toss it over and the colours are amazing  and what we're gonna do now is just put your finger at the bottom  where all the kind of dressing dripping down to -  and taste it - little bit more salt - just so everything's like perfectly...  bit of pepper and - i think - an optional now -  which i think i'll go for is er - a little bit of chillie -  just split them in half and scrap the seeds out the middle.  it gives it a little bit of heat - not hot -  i'm not talking anywhere near blowing your head off -  but what i'm talking about is a really really nice sort of warmth  that works with the cucumbers and the tomatoes and the limes and it just -  i think it brings it all together really well.  yeah - this will sit quite happily for a bit of time -  letting all the sort of flavours come out of the chillies  and everything to combine a bit  and it's you know it's a really colourful thing -  in the middle of the table - lovely.  right to go with my pucker curry right i'm gonna make the perfect rice  and i know everyone knows how to make rice -  but this is a special way that i use to make it really light  and really fluffy and i like it.  boil up the rice -  in boiling salted water for about 4 or 5 minutes  and then at that stage the rice is just slightly under cooked  and i put a little bit of water back in the pan -  put the colander over it - and whack it back on there.  bit of tin foil over and basically -  water's draining off now and it's gonna come to the boil  and start steaming again and that's gonna really help to make it lovely and light -  takes about five minutes and then it'll be perfectly ready to eat.    what i'm gonna make now is a thing called tempura  which is basically is a really really pucker crispy batter  and you can deep fry like vegetables or meat or fish  but i'm gonna do vegetables today with dipping sauces  and i think it's the dipping sauce that really -  you got that big crunch and you've got the lovely inside  but the dipping sauce is what you want and i'll show you how to make -  it's very, very simple and you can vary it any old way.  i've got rice wine vinegar here.  rice wine vinegar's slightly more mild than like white wine vinegar  but i mean you can use it.  what you've got to do is sweeten it  and it's very simple and you can just do it to your own taste.  so if you just get a little bowl.  i'm gonna put in about half a pint okay -  and i'm gonna add about three kind of dessertspoons of sugar to this  and you just stir it until it goes clear.  just keep tasting - and -  what you wanna do is take that harshness out of the vinegar -  so it's just beautiful for dipping.  put a little bit more in i think - yeah.  right so you've got your sweet and sour there - that's there.  what we need to do now is get loads and loads of flavour.  i've got coriander here - just a little handful -  and this is how easy it is you know.  i'm just gonna chop it up and whop it in there.  and i want some chillies - just scrap out most of the seeds.  how did - how did the gig go?  the gig was superb mate honestly -  it was such a cracker and it was a real laugh.  got a bit sweaty though - i like to get into it a bit.  right kind of finelyish chopped - in it goes.  now garlic's quite important actually -  not much but just a little bit of garlic -  not garlic that's gonna punch you round the face  but garlic that just kind of changes the flavour -  it gives you that kind of - i'm talking like a wine merchant -  and i probably use a quarter - so just finely chop it -  and that'll be enough to make it completely taste different.  give it a good old stir round -  right - yeah wicked.  those flavours are really strong.  but of salt and pepper -  always important and that tastes alright now -  but give it like ten minutes or give it an hour -  that'll be like a tea-bag -  there'll be loads of flavours all over the place.  so that's the dipping sauce done?  yeah - end of story.  just going to put it into some little bowls - and er -  i'll put them in the middle of the table and they can just dip away.    now i'm gonna make the batter -  very important you've gotta make it last minute.  all you need is cornflour and plain or strong flour.  and what i need to do is i need double normal flour to cornflour -  so it's one cup of cornflour to two lots of normal flour.  lovely - right okay.  we need water, okay but we need ice cold water and if -  if you've got it hanging about -  fizzy mineral water or soda water seems to give it a little bit of an edge.  but if not you know cold - very cold - ice cold water is perfect.  it has to be ice cold?  it just helps it - it's like -  imagine we're gonna deep fry it yeah - very hot -  imagine something really cold hitting that -  it's just gonna go - straight away it's gonna make it really crunchy so...  some water - swish it around a bit - let it cold cold.  now -  this is the important bit about tempura.  we're not gonna let it -  we're not gonna make it and let it rest like normal batters right.  we wanna make it right at the last minute -  we're not gonna whip it with a whish so it's really smooth -  i'm gonna use like the back of a spoon of a chopstick  and what that'll give you is kind of a lump batter  and i know that sounds really freaky  but the little lumps help to make it really crispy  and it's quite characteristic of tempura in general really.  right so this - this water's really cold now -  so what i'm gonna do is just pour it in - add it bit by bit - stir it in slowly -  you want it to be about double cream -  just slightly thicker than double cream consistency -  lovely - that's perfect - absolutely stunning.  right so i've gotta wicked selection of vegetable here.  i've got green beans, i've got chillies - i've got mushrooms - i've got courgettes -  i've not asparagus - we've got sweet potato - i've got onions.  i've got broccoli - you know herbs - little corns -  so just get a bit of everything in there - you don't want to overload the frying oil  so just kind of do little bits at a time and use your -  your chop stick to kind of just fold it all over -just to coat it.  and shake off any excess if there is any - and this oil -  i've got hot oil here and it's been heating up slowly -  this is at 200 - 220 degrees  it you haven't got a thermometer - you can get 'em for about five quid -  all you have to do is dip it in  and if it kind of starts to fry quite fast that's fine -  if it's a really viscous fry you don't want that  and if it's not frying at all - then it's too cold.  so just keep your eyes peeled.  kind of flick it away from you -  just so that if any like splashes of oil come in they don't go anywhere near your.  what sort of oil is it?  it's just normal like sunflower oil.  so you get your first load in quick -  otherwise they'll all be cooked at different times.  what's your favourite vegetable in it?  i reckon my favourite must be the chillies -  the mushrooms and the sweet potatoes - i just love those - so good. so so tasty.  right so i'm just gonna use one of these things just to turn it over a bit  and don't be viscous with it but just kind of like turn 'em over -  make sure they're not sticking - move 'em about a little bit  and i just feel already they're really really crispy.  the only thing that determines  how you should cut things up is like for instance -  that batter cooks in about two and a half, three minutes okay -  to be perfectly crisp and slightly golden -  right and things like the asparagus tips and the courgettes  and the chillie they're all gonna be perfectly edible in that time.  but things like sweet potatoes which are quite hard er -  because of the three minutes -  you've gotta cut it to a thickness which is gonna be you know nice  and edible in three minutes you know -  so something like that - sort of like thick kind of crisp.  so these are ready -  so just shake off the excess oil and then lay it out on the paper - wicked.  i'm really pleased with these so basically  what i'm gonna do now is put a little bit of salt on them -  cos i thing that makes lovely jubbly and just test one.  mmm - hot and crispy - mmm - perfect.  right i'm gonna get on now and cook these in batches  and i wanna keep feeding the old troops  cos they're ravenous now so i'm gonna crack on.  naked's what i call my way of cooking.  what i cook in the restaurant isn't what i cook at home.  cooking's gotta be a laugh  it's gotta be simple, it's gotta be tasty, it's gotta be fun.  i suppose you could say it's stripping down a recipe to its bare essentials.  no way... it's not me, it's the food.  got a day off  jools is out and about doing things  i've got the whole kitchen to myself. and i'm trying to get all these things  that i've been meaning to do for like the last three months  you know all the kitchen bits and pieces all those kind of munchies  i wanna get my chillies situation back up to where it should be  cos you know what i'm like about chillies? and that's it really.  sounds like a bit of a busman's holiday to me?  it's not all working just you know mucking about  i've got the boys coming round today  and we're going go- karting which i'm really looking forward to  but apart from that it's a pretty quiet day.  i'm gonna have a nice night in with jools tonight and keep out of trouble.  so - er - that's it really.  i'm going out to borough market now anyway  i'll catch you later.  i'm after some chillies mate - lovely.  i tell you what i need a load of those right  and i need a load of these.  easy mate... what are you doing with it all?  ah - what are you gonna do with all that?  got any herbs?  how is mrs. turnip?  she's alright - she's alright she's dropped the baby to the school  how many baby turnips have you got?  we've got two yeah - yeah - unbelievable they are.  but they're growing - medium sized now.  when did you plant those?  easy  not where - i said when - er mint.  going go- karting today  are you?  - yeah with the boys - no  - yeah - whereabouts you going?  - up near kings cross - oh right right  oh give us a tenner - good man - good man  nice one mate. look after yourself...    the thing i love about chillies is they're all different  they all taste different and they all smell different  and they're all different shapes and sizes  and these are the ones kind of like  they're like a cross between chilli and peppers  they're like the things they make paprika out of by drying 'em and crumbling.  so what i'm gonna do  i'm gonna kind of preserve these ready for a midnight munchie  so first things first - cut them in half and we're gonna remove the seeds  cos all the deadly, deadly, deadly heat is in there.  people always think of chillies as something that gives heat  and it's not - they're actually fantastic to eat if you give 'em half the chance.  so if we get rid of the seeds  we've got rid of half the heat already, so that's cool.  get 'em out - shake 'em out.  the next thing i do is wash 'em the old fellows  because washing kind of gets rid of quite a lot of heat as well,  and i know it does  cos when you wash it again  you can feel that mad kind of it feels like the air's full of chilli.  but - er - so let's just get these last ones done - lovely...  just knock all those seeds out and chuck 'em in there.  cor you can feel it  what i'm gonna do is i'm gonna put 'em in here  you can do it in a roasting tray but i've got one of these kind of baking dishes.  just plonk your chills in here and we're gonna cook it in the oven.  i've got some bay leaves and i've got some olive oil.  you don't want to use really, really good olive oil  just enough to cover it.  i'm gonna bake it about 200  and you're going to tenderise the chillies so it's nice and edible  but it's still gonna like maintain that lovely kind of cup shape  that's what we want.  we don't want to cook the hell out of it so it goes flat  so whack in the oven about half an hour.  right these have cooled down for about half an hour  but they've also been cooked for about half and hour  and they're really, really soft, and they've still got their shape  so they've got a nice little cup shape  so i can put nice little things in 'em and just drain 'em of the oil.  it's not just like a chilli aggressive oil now it's quite kind of sweet kind  of roasted peppery kind of oil you know which is brill  so you're not going to throw that away?  no way - god don't do that.  i'm gonna put it back into this bottle  and then keep it for like pizzas and cheese - salads - i mean fish.  quite hot is it?  yeah yeah course it's got a nice kick because it's been cooked with that.  but look - i haven't got a funnel  and i've got this trick that my old man used to do when the  when the old - the old lawn mower back home used to run out of petrol  cos i always used to cut the grass for him and i always used to run it out of petrol.  it used to drive him up the - up the wall.  shove it down the hole - god  put it in the sink. i think it's a good idea.  let's have a little pour.  lovely - it's working - there we go  that's great you have two dishes for the price of one?  yeah but what about the funnel?  lovely - so bottle - very tasty flavoured oil.  so what i'm gonna do now is stuff these chillies  and i'm gonna use anchovies and capers  just kind of equal amount of each. just gonna finely chop it.  i'm not gonna make it too pasty  looks a little bit more home made you know bit more love.  right - that's all chopped, what do i need?  i need a - one of these air tight jar things  and you just put it into here like that and press it in.  so they're kind of stuffed really?  they're kind of stuffed mate  right - then we put 'em in our little jar.  and we do it to all of those.  and they will sit very happily in the fridge  just gagging to be used in salads, with nice grilled, fried fish,  on their own as kind of not canopies but kind of like you know things  to go with drinks cos like you know cold glass of anything  and like the whole hot salty thing does it for me  do you know when you go into a bar and you have the olives  and it just gets you going you know for dinner?  i love it  but to make these really, really, really special right  i imagine they come out like that and you just finely  you roughly chop some basil, parsley, rocket, both or one of each  and just dress it with some balsamic vinegar and put that on top  so it kind of goes like that and that fresh  it's just - it's one of the most best things i've ever eaten.  and you don't even have to preserve 'em just eat 'em straight away.  does jools like chillies too?  i annoy my girlfriend so much cos i'm always doing something late  whether it's the band or what ever about one o'clock - half one,  i get the munchies, so i like to go in the fridge  and get a bit of stale bread, toast or whatever  get some chillies, get some gerkins and a nice chunk of cheese  and my girlfriend normally wakes up  when she hears like the fridge doors going late at night.  and she'll say what are you doing?  oh god i hate you  and because she knows i'm gonna come to bed stinking of gherkins  and blooming chillies and stuff she thinks it's disgusting.  lovely...  and then just cover it in olive oil from my rather small canister-  just pour it on the sides so it doesn't disrupt it too much.  so we're done - munchies sustained for the next couple of months.  jools'll be well happy when she sees that in the fridge.    right this is another fantastic recipe  that like you can keep in the fridge for a couple of days  little bit like  well i think of it a little bit like the kind of gaucamoles and the humus  one of those kind of spready, munchie type things  something you put in a sarnie or on like little bits of crispy toast  like for munchies before drinks or you know late night munchies or  or anything like that really.  right, so i've got four big black aubergines  you can use any aubergines really.  and i've roasted them at 250 degrees for about an hour.  and you have this really soft, sweet smelling kind of inside  and it's gone almost creamy it's fantastic.  they call it poor man's caviar because inside it looks a little bit like caviar  kind of - it looks nothing like caviar but...  who invented that?  i call it essex boy's caviar cos i think it's a bit of a classier name you know.  all you have to do is like scoop out the insides  and just get it all out and it comes out really, really easy.  you could kind of put it in a magimix and blend it out till its smooth  but i think you lose all the character so while we're adding the other ingredients  i'm gonna stir and kind of chop with the spoon  and i'm gonna use cumin and cumin is a fantastic spice.  it's a right pokey spice you know gives you a right punch round the face.  and you have to go easy with it really so i'm gonna have two pinches.  and if i need more i'll add it later but essentially that's how much i need.  so once you've got it to a nice powder  yeah - i'm gonna get some garlic in there, some nice little background flavour.  i only need like a normal size clove i just peel it and pound that up as well.  once you've got that into a nice paste,  get it in here, scoop it out and stir that in.  if you put that in while it's warm it'll kind of get the flavour really happening.  now the next thing to do is we want to tweak the flavour with olive oil  peppery olive oil, - salt and pepper and then it'll start beginning to taste nice.  let's have my olive oil  i'm gonna put about sort of five tablespoons of ol  are you looking forward to going go-karting?  yeah too right mate - i can't wait.  i've never been before  but like i've always fancied myself as a bit of a tiger on the race tracks.  and i suppose that comes from an up bringing of having a mother drives like nigel  nigel mansell. you know when you're at school  and you've got groups of friends that are into different things  girls, trainers, sports and then the ones that are into cars.  well they always used to kind of like gather round  and get out the bus queue to watch my old dear come in  she'd got wooom... and then i used to get in and wooo  and they used to go oh yeah man she did a wheel spin in second.  and that was my mum all over  and then just to like to top it all off my old man is completely different  he does an average of about 25 miles an hour in 5th gear  and he just sits there kind of... like the whole world going by him  not really concentrating.  he used to blooming get me to school late and then when i went from school  i'd miss neighbours cos it would take about an hour and a half to get home.  so embarrassing.  yeah that tastes good that tastes seasoned now right  and it even tastes nice, but what i wanna do now  is balance that oily thing with lemon and a nice bit of coriander.  you want that kind of acidic thing that's the really important thing  you've got - you've got that kind of oily, creamy aubergine,  you've got the cumin there so there's kind of like spice there,  but it's the lemon juice that's gonna really turn it around like a million times.  so - you wanna about one and a half lemons in there.  but add one lemon and then taste it stir it in and taste it.  that's really good actually i'm just gonna add one lemon  and also it's still warm so when it gets cold it's gonna be beautiful.  so i've got a nice bunch of coriander that i've just washed and shaken off.  i'm just gonna use about half of that just kind of finely chop it  because those stalks are really, really sweet and quite crunchy  and when you get onto leaves just kind of slightly more roughly chop 'em.  when this is finished it tastes so good that i've even had it  with like some really nice - on a plate  a big dollop like you'd have like mash potatoes with like lamb chops or something  i'd have a big dollop with some like mustardy leaves like rocket or watercress  or something and some seared scallops or even like things  like white fish are brilliant or shell fish absolutely superb.  or lamb - even better with lamb roasted lamb - sliced up and that ...  rock on - that's really nice. so do you wanna try some?  i'd love to  just put a rack on  i'm gonna do a kind of melba toast thing. and these sort of things like are fantastic.  i remember when i went to college  and there was all like these kind of canopies and stuff going on  canopies this, canopies that - aspic jelly and little students breathing over things  putting things in shapes and like flavour to sort of work effort and taste wise  it's all in my eyes completely wrong.  so you're not a vol-au-vent man then?  i'm not a vol-au-vent man it's too much time you know  think about how long that took me and this is fantastic.  and then imagine having a glass of champagne or beer in your hand  just imagine. and tuck in -so what do you think?  delicious  nice isn't it?  lovely    i've invited everyone back for a bit of tucker  so on the way back i picked up this quite large filet of beef  and i'm gonna make something really, really quick  really, really colourful and fantastic and tasty, real fiesty little thing, so ideal.  so what i'm gonna do - put a pan on basically what i'm doing is a carpachio  a carpachio of beef yeah which classically is always raw  but what i'm gonna do is i'm gonna sear it it's still gonna be like rare,  roary rarey yeah but i'm gonna have a nice little seared rim yeah  and i'm gonna encrust it with like seasoning and spices and stuff like that.  right - so i've got coriander seed that's the litt  you want a good handful cos coriander seeds are quite mellow  now in comparison to like coriander the leaf which is quite fragrant and fresh.  you just bash 'em and all this smell comes out  that's what i love about the old pestle and mortar - it's fantastic  push the beef to one side and i'm gonna use this chopping board  and i'm just gonna season it quite generously with pepper and then salt  i thought you were having a quiet night in with jools tonight?  don't say that cos you'll make me feel guilty- i opened my mouth didn't i?  i got a bit too excited and i said oh yeah come back to my house.  so she doesn't know yet, but she should be cool about it.  right- salt, pepper, coriander seeds and then just roll the beef over it like that  and it will just stick to it and encrust it. just gonna put a touch of oil  just - i'm gonna use the chilli oil as well - i told you it would come in handy.  so just put that over the beef, and then basically kind of pat it in  and just so it's got a little layer of kind of oil and then  you know it's not gonna stick or anything like that.  so we want it to toast now and almost like get all those spices and stuff going.  i'll turn it about every minute, minute and a half so what i'm gonna do now  basically is get some nice sort of things to sprinkle on the top.  i'm gonna take this kind of like in a thai direction which is slightly unusual  but really, really tasty, and i've got coriander and i've got ginger.  first of all get your old coriander and just roll it up like it was a cigar  or something like that - slice it thinly.  push that up there - that's the old coriander - so - let's have a little look.  yeah like that - fantastic. i'm well chuffed with that.  right then the ginger -just chop it up finely into little flecks.  lovely - put that in there. right this looks pretty damned good.  lovely - right so what we're gonna do is just turn the gas off  push it to one side - let it kind of relax for about sort of 5/10 minutes.  why do you do that?  well the thing is like imagine if like you're really warm  and i chucked you in a cold swimming pool yeah  you're gonna go oh like that and the other way round it's kind of the same for meat  if you've got cold meat and it goes in a hot pan like  goes like that and it's really, really tight and contracting  and all the juice cooks into the middle and then when you let it relax it goes  oh... kind of hamlet moment you know. take it easy  and then all the juice goes back to where it should be and then you slice it  it's tender, it tastes nice, it falls apart in your mouth.  otherwise it's tough as old boots. so what i need now is i need some  chillies, and radish look at these lovely radishes.  the leaves are like if you just taste one  so tasty and like what's the point of throwing it away  we'll have that on the bottom of the plate and it'll look really, really nice.  and then i'm gonna slice 'em and then i've got the old chillies  right so what i'm gonna do is take the old tops off  lose the seeds and try and slice 'em at an angle as finely as possible.  right - we're sorted. i need a big, big plate.  get the old meat - and you can slice it up so i mean it's that easy  you know and it takes no time at all.  so just slice it as thinly as you possibly can  how many will that feed then do you think?  and then we cut it like this and we're gonna kind of flavour it like this  you'd serve like  so you're actually stretching quite an expensive bit of meat a long way.  and if i'm really lucky - i might even get left overs so i can have my sarnie tomorrow.  right - here we go. this is how simple it is  lovely kind of leaves of the radish which are nice and mustardy yeah  just sprinkle about the place yeah  and then you wanna kind of really casually kind of drape this meat,  and the whole idea is that we wanna make one layer so we can put all these  lovely flavours on and they can all get exposed to it you know?  what i wanna do now is just like you know  we wanna get the ginger and from a height just like scatter  you don't wanna get too low and put it all on one bit  you know and then like coriander  and then let's have a bit of radish.  fantastic.  and then let's have the chilli - again - lovely.  so that is absolutely pucker right. and it's lively and it looks cool,  but to get it all happening get some sesame seed oil right  which is pretty potent stuff really and just kind of really lightly dribble  and just work into the middle in like a little circle.  soy sauce you can be really generous  you just make sure that every bit of meat has got soy sauce over  and then you've got the lines yeah squeeze it...  yeah - there we go mate. happy days - we're all done.    the thing i really love about these salads is that like you can pick up something  like you know a mushroom and if you slice it like nice and thinly  lengthwise all of a sudden it looks almost oriental you know.  but i've got some rocket, bean sprouts, red and green peppers.  got my spring onions. you know you can four things  or you can have ten things,  but the main thing is that it's all crunchy and looks nice.  so let's just plonk this in here.  lovely baby spinach - right plonk that in there.  let's check out our - the old noods...  ...all sticking  they don't take very long to cook those do they?  no - couple of minutes.  what else have we got?  yeah nice i've got some coriander and some mint.  i think it's amazing that you can just invite a lot of people  round for supper at the drop of a hat  food doesn't always have to be lots of work or a palaver  or be all official about it you know  it's just about getting your mates round and getting the old boys fed really.  soon as the boys and girls get here today  i'm gonna give 'em some of my essex boy caviar  bit of toast and i'll get the old stuffed chillies out as well  and finish that off with the rocket and balsamic vinegar and they will love it.  right this my perfect day mate and it's certainly turning out to be anyway.  nothing like having all your mates round for a bit of tucker.  obviously you don't wanna put warm noodles into the lovely cold crispy,  crunchy baked veggies, so we'll get 'em nice and cold. let that drain.  i've got these cashews that i've just put in the oven for 5 minutes,  just to get nice and golden and they're fantastic  when you - when you come across one of those  it'll be nice little surprise cos it'll taste lovely.  now i'm gonna make a dressing yeah  and of late i've just started doing it in a jam jar  because whatever you don't use put it in the fridge  and use it for the next couple of days you know so it's good.  just gonna chop up the chilli i'm not gonna take the seed out this time  i'm just gonna chop them nice and thinly. so we just put that in the old jam jar.  garlic - only a little bit of garlic  it's just for a little bit of background flavour -just kind of finely slice that  and then i've gotta about a thumb sized piece of ginger  and i'm just gonna run through that and finely chop it so it's nice and dinky.  get your limes - and squeeze 'em in to  brilliant right  so we have four limes in there.  we now need to get soy sauce in there yeah?  couple of tablespoons just to give it that lovely taste  and you want about a tablespoon of sesame seed oil cos it's quite strong  you don't wanna overdo it.  and then about you know 2/3 times as much oil as there is lime juice  so about that much. put the lid on give it a good old... go on my son  yeah - so get the old noodles in there have all the bits coming out and stuff  i won't use it all cos save this for tomorrow.  we just dress it.  get stuck in there - brilliant colours.  just tastes brill and it smells amazing actually.  beautiful - i am so chuffed about this it's gonna look brilliant. so that's done  let me show you what i normally have if desert's required - secret weapon  if in doubt get the old maltesers out mate - pop the bags right  and then you put a cloth over it and you bash the hell out of it.  and i'm gonna give them this  cos it's so tasty crumbled or sprinkled over vanilla ice cream.  there you go - we're all really raring to go.  oh god - jools is back - get it cleaned up.  yeah...  naked's what i call my way of cooking  what i cook in the restaurant isn't what i cook at home.  cooking's gotta be a laugh.  it's gotta be simple. it's gotta be tasty. it's gotta be fun.  i suppose you could say it's striping down the recipe to its bare essentials.  no way it's me - it's the food.  you do not believe how happy i am to see  not that i'm not happy to see you all the time  but i've just been shopping with george for an hour  and i think that's enough punishment for any man.  the worst scenario is - is when they pick up two things that they like  one that they really wanna buy and one that they don't.  and it's kind of like er-er-right er - well darling they're both very nice  and there's kind of like the sweat starts dripping  and it's which one does she like and i pick the wrong one - no i got it wrong.  she's meeting up with like six really good friends today  and they're all gonna go clubbing and she's allowed me to tag along  thanks very much.  so we're gonna you know have a good night out  and then they're gonna come back to the flat and kip over.  i've gotta provide munchies and service  jools says my payment is to hang around with me and my mates,  so i'll just have to ham it up to the boys.  what did you do last night?  spent it with six lovely ladies. thank you.    i am gonna make the most fantastic breakfast in the world  and it's called pukkola  because it's pucker and my name's jamie oliver.  and i've been searching for years for like the perfect breakfast  yeah like a muesli type thing let me show you how you do it.  right - so i've basically got about  yeah - so that's the base really that's the main thing.  and then i want about two handfuls of bran  and then i've got some dried fruits right which are quite nice cos they're  yeah - i love dried apricots because to me they're like wine gums.  if i ever had a kid right who just wanted to keep eating wine gums all the time  and had a problem with rotting teeth sounds nice doesn't it?  i'd just give him these cos i think they're fantastic.  the second one i've got is dates and these are dried  and they're sweet and they're chewy and they're caramely  you know i hate anchovies, i hate dates.  but you won't be able to taste it as a date  it'll just be like a like a flavour really.  so have you been practicing your dancing?  yeah! no i'll let you into a secret yeah  i am probably the world's worst dancer  i don't think i'm going to be impressing the girls tonight too much  do i try and be cool and get it completely wrong  or do i just walk in there as my normal self  and just you know have all the girls walking home saying  he's nice that jamie but he's a terrible dancer.  oh yeah - anyway look you can see it's all chopped up now  it's actually quite sticky - quite most - so - put that in there...  so that sweetens the - the mixture?  yeah we're talking about natural sweetness here,  so the next thing we do are nuts my old mate.  and i've got three nuts and a handful of each yeah.  i've got my almonds which are great, i've got the old brazil nuts  now almonds and brazil nuts are great cos they're a white nut  and when you smash 'em up they go almost really creamy  and sort of powdery which is lovely.  and then i've got the er the walnuts which are quite  you know quite a robust sort of nut flavour.  and then just - you can do it in a magimix if you like  but i just like to fold 'em up like this and...  just bash it with one of these...  it's good to get all your aggression out as well.  i haven't had a drum for a while so... or you can use the magimix.  no i like it i tell you what's good about this  and you won't get this from the mag is that you end up with lovely like  you get lovely kind of almost bruised flour  and then you get lovely chunks as well,  and i think you know it adds to the flavour and the er - the look really.  so all i do is mix it up now. and turn it over.  now there's no way that i'm gonna eat all this  so what i can do is just whack it in an old air tight container  and i have this every morning for breakfast  and you know quite frankly just gets your brain working.  gets everything working actually.  this is like the viagra of meuslis mate  anyway what's different about this because by all means like you know  just serve it in a bowl and have it for breakfast as we all do,  but what i'm saying is just, about an inch over the cereal just cover it with milk  so there's quite a lot of milk in there - lovely!  and that'll suck it all up and go lovely and then i need like apples  so i've got about enough for sort of four, five people in there.  so i usually do a round sort of half an apple per person.  you do nice long grates and you can see you get all the lovely green skin  they're real crunchy boys as well just don't buy the soft ones  get the real crunchy boys that are quite almost a little bit tart as well you know  but also if you think about it like if you look when i'm grating  there's quite a lot of juice so you've got that whole sort of apple  apple skin, apple juice thing and it just makes it taste so good.  i tell you what else i've done with the dried stuff yeah  i've made - well i was cooking flap jacks for my cousins the other day  and i just carried on like normal flap jacks but put the dried stuff in  and i used that - and it was actually better than normal.  it was really, really fantastic.  lovely! - so we're done mate.  so basically that's it - it's quite sloppy  but the thing is as i said you can eat this like that now,  but if you leave this is the fridge for like 8 hours  the whole thing just changes do you know what i mean.  you maybe want to add a little bit of milk when you serve it  but basically it goes sticky and moorish and scrumptious and like all the flavour.  the thing is all the - all the goodness comes out of all the dried fruit  and the nuts and into the milk and then into the - you know - it's fantastic.  i cling film it yeah  cos well not that i've got anything that smells in the fridge,  but if you've got say like some strong cheese or some onions  or anything like that the milk  and the porridge oats will take that flavour on and you don't want that.  so - you're gonna love it i'll let you have a bit later.    i'm gonna make a bit of lunch are you up for that?  lovely. got some frozen stock and i just put a bit of hot water over it.  i'm gonna make risotto - i'm gonna make like a sweet pea and prawn risotto  it's fantastic.  did you make that yourself that stock?  yeah - does that impress you? lovely - do you hear that  ...er - yeah it's nice - you can use  cos you can use like the old stock cubes for risotto  but they just taste so much better you know  you can't really go wrong if you start with a good stock.  so a good stock - good start already.  second thing we need is onion, garlic, a little bit of celery.  thing about risotto - people are scared of them - are you scared of them?  a bit  do you have dreams about them darling? bit of a dodgy nightmare.  listen - all this is chopped up yeah put a bit of olive oil in there  just a little bit. and -er-right-so basically you can hear it frying now yeah,  so what i'm gonna do is just give it a little shake,  put a lid on top and because you've put the lid on top  all the moisture that comes out will go back down  and it'll kind of almost like simmer and steam a little bit so that's good.  just cook that for a couple of minutes to get it nice and soft.  get all the flavours happening you know what i mean  that oil and the root veg - this should be getting nice and soft now.  let's have a little feel - yeah.  and it's just kind of a good start flavour wise  so the next thing is the old risotto rice and risotto rice is like  it's quite a short plump rice with loads and loads of starch.  so 50 grams per person - in my case half a handful cos i've got big hands  in your case a big handful. and then just stir it around really.  now i tell you what i would do now is er put a little pinch of salt in  yeah because you want the seasoning to get inside of that rice as well.  it's only a little details, but it does count.  the first thing the rice is getting is just sucking up all that flavoured oil,  all the lovely vegetables and stuff.  and when it's - it stops you know almost like a simmering steaming sound  you can almost - when it starts to sound like it's frying  i wanna put a little bit of white wine in there.  about a glass - and you look in there now  all of a sudden there's this creamy stuff has come out the rice you know  you wanna kind of encourage that out.  so by moving it you can see it like just becoming sticky and lovely.  so you wanna cook this for about one or two minutes and just smell it  and when you can't smell that kind of that harsh kind of alcohol thing you know  you know what i mean by that, when you put the old brandy on the christmas pudding  when it - it stops smelling like alcoholic, which is now basically.  you can start adding the stock  and you'll just be left with all that lovely fragrance  so just tip a bit of that in there.  so you want -for the perfect risotto you add a little bit of stock at a time.  and never anymore than that really.  and then as it cooks - it'll cook into it and you know it's kind of  by stirring it - all the kind of risotto rice is kind of moving about  and hitting each other. and...  and is the heat quite high when you're doing that  it's kind of - the heat's medium high if you have it too high  the outside will be cooked and the middle will be like raw.  if it's too low it'll just go like pulp so you wanna  medium kind heat you know so it's constant.  think risottos are fantastic they take 20 minutes to make right  yeah you've gotta put a bit of love and affection in there  you've gotta stir it a little bit but big deal you know.  and once you've learnt this like say you just make a couple of risottos  over a couple of weeks and you've cracked it yeah - you've cracked the risotto  the basic risotto - next time you go shopping and you're a bit stuck  well i can cook risotto so what's good having a little walk around  spinach - baby spinach - fantastic  throw that in at the end with a little bit of lemon juice  beautiful - nice parmesan over the top.  asparagus - you know you can put any sea food  open up like clams or you can just put 'em straight in.  how brilliant is that. i tell you what i'm so hot  i've got this dripping sheep on top of me.  oh dear oh dear - so let's have a little taste of this now cos it's looking lovely.  how can you tell when it's nearly ready?  well i just got a rice grain and you eat it.!  and basically you want it to be soft and a pleasure to eat and if it's not  if it's chalky or - or you feel like you need a glass of water  after you've eaten it then no you cook it for longer.  so it needs about 2 more minutes cooking which is perfect cos i've got  well i'm cheating but...  - who's gonna tell me off - i am at home.  got some lovely - right they're defrosted.  got some lovely frozen prawns which are really actually juicy and nice  and tender yeah and they look lovely  beautiful colour and they're already cooked anyway  so they only just need to be like just cooked with the rest of the rice  for two minutes and then i've got this petite pois  and don't tell me who hasn't got these in their freezer  cos just about everyone has unless they're food snobs in my eyes  because frozen peas have got to be the most  well they're the best frozen thing in the world aren't they.  and i guess you could use fresh prawns and...  yeah yeah fresh prawns of course and i like i feel like i'm compromising  but at the end of the day i'm only feeding me and you  and it's you know it's not as if i've got the michelin star guide  coming round to give me a telling off.  so no - it's you know it's what's in my freezer and it's real.  i'm gonna add a little bit more stock and i think we're practically there  and now i'm gonna turn the heat off.  this is the most important thing that i found in risotto yeah  so we turned the gas off right no more heat.  and i wanna nice knob of butter, yeah so let's get that in there.  and that's just gonna kind of bring it all together  and be absolutely tasty as put a knob of butter in there  and just kind of knock it up a bit and just stir it in.  and we put a lid on and just leave it forget it for 2 minutes.  if you just serve it now the rice will go on the plate and the stock will go  and you'll have a plate of... and then you'll have a pile of rice.  but what you want is a nice ouzy so it's nice to eat.  what i want yeah just as a last thing  i love all that - it's so fresh.  i've got mint from the garden yeah and mint's great - you just plant it  it grows like the clappers.  you just cut the old boys right down and they grow back up again.  they've got no feelings at all they just keep growing. but  if you look at this now it is just so creamy and lovely, it's just ouzy you know  it's not gonna - it's gonna be nice and juicy - let's have a look.  mmm -just a touch of salt and pepper right - we do want it to be perfect.  no point in going to all this trouble and then you know it's a bit bland so...  i tell you what's amazing the amount of sweetness  that comes out of those peas and prawns it's lovely.  so put that in the middle of the plate i've done a bit too much as always  and then get your mint and from a height just kind of sprinkle it  and it's lovely to get - almost like you've got the lovely flavour there,  but you have a bit of freshness on top.  and now just squeeze this over the top yeah.  so there we go right what else do we need?  here - i've got some a really good peppery olive oil yeah  just a little drizzle and that's just you know  it's almost like a bit of pepper on top.  taste that oh gorgeous one go on - do you like?  it's delicious    i'm gonna make er - a chocolate desert like we call it a chocolate pot yeah  it's probably about the most simple chocolate thing in the world.  but the good thing about it right is cos the girls want chocolate  and i'm not arguing with them at this time of night.  i've got half a pint of single cream yeah  that i just pour in the old in the old pan.  i don't wanna bring it to the boil but i wanna bring it to a little simmer,  so i'm gonna whack the old gas up and get it heating.  and most importantly - got chocolate  but if i put a whole chunk of chocolate in it's take half an hour to melt so by...  by smashing it up does a good job so there we go right i need some eggs.  i've got some lovely free range organic eggs -just stand them up for a laugh.  basically what i wanna do is er  just crack the eggs so i've got the egg yolks yeah  i'm not using the egg whites so i'm gonna chuck those away,  but basically the egg yolks i'll put in this dish - it just makes it really,  really rich and like intensifies the chocolate flavour.  so this cream has been on the heat for about a minute - a minute and a half  so it's dead quick really and that's the only bit of cooking that we've got to do.  so it's not boiling but it's pretty much like a  well it's kind of like a simmer really.  so pop your old chocolate in  right - let's get a spatula right  and just stir this in and i love this bit  because you see cream turn into like this pretty unbelievable thing.  the liquid's hot enough to melt the chocolate?  yeah just hot enough to melt the chocolate and also these egg yolks  i'm gonna put in now as well and obviously eggs hardly need any cooking really,  but you've gotta stir it while you're doing it  cos you don't want scrambled eggs in your old chocolate.  the nice thing is that you can see it becoming like really, really smooth.  so now we've done that what do we need? - a bit of brandy mate.  don't tell them about it cos... i think they've had their fair share  for this much i put about a tablespoon a tablespoon and a half yeah  but the trick is cos all brandy's are different  and i wouldn't use a cheap old horrible brandy, do something half decent.  but have a little - stir it in and have a little taste yeah because like brandy  and chocolate is quite a nice combination.  but if you have loads of booze and you swallow  and it's like oh... horrible so.  so the brandy really is just for flavour?  mmm- yeah - little bit more. the other thing you can is like grate like orange in  a little bit of orange zest so it's like the chocolate orange effect mate. yeah  nothing better than the old chocolate orange. right the last thing i need  i'm gonna put a little bit of butter yeah  and sort of you know it's about 20 grams of butter  but in layman's terms about a small knob of butter really.  it's purely there to sort of enrichen it and make it lovely and smooth  and just kind of...  is it salted or unsalted?  that is actually slightly salted  funnily enough chocolate can always do with a little little pinch of salt  cos it actually benefits from being seasoned a little bit  do you really not mind coming home in the middle of the night and then cooking  i can't think of anything i'd like less  no, mate i've done worse - every time i go round someone's house for a dinner party  i end up cooking even if i'm not cooking so it makes no odds to me mate.  listen that's gone all nice and smooth now  i like to put it in little expresso cups and fill 'em up with chocolate  pour it in carefully - i'm sure i'm gonna get chocolate everywhere.  it sets really smooth and like just like the perfect thing  ah no i spilt a bit...  you know it's not hard and horrible it's kind of very smooth and lovely.  darling - we're starving...  i'm nearly done now but i've got to put 'em in the fridge.  did you have a nice evening jools?  yeah it was brilliant, we had a right laugh, really good  i'm afraid we're really starving no pressure  oh that's alright  but can we have that now?  no no no - cos i've gotta put them in the fridge but you can have that  excellent - don't be long.  easily pleased  look what i've got...  you could serve them very happily as they are, but i tell you what i do  i do like a little little like lemon and palenter cookies  but any like little crunchy kind of biscuits fantastic  cos then you put 'em on the side of the old dish  so you have three biscuits a bit of this  teaspoon and it's nice cos you can kind of use the biscuit  to sort of spoon it all up.  so there you go - about half an hour, forty minutes - so...    this is like probably the most unchefy thing i've ever done in my life right  basically i invented this when i was about 16 years old yeah  and what is was we used to go  we got... and we used to go down to the pubs and to have a drink right?  and we weren't horrible little reckless little kids but we did you know  take part in a bit of underage drinking and i had two very close friends that  used to live quite nearby and they always used to come back for a bit of tucker.  so i developed this thing which i call now midnight pan at breakfast  because you make it at midnight and it's cooked in a pan  and it's breakfast kind of i've got a really nice non stick pan  and that's quite important for this recipe i think.  and i'm gonna put the sausages in there.  is it very hot?  it's like a medium high heat - if it's too hot everything gets kind of coloured  and cooked far too quick and it's raw in the middle  well like i hate eggs when they're cooked and they've got a black kind of  that horrible teary film on the bottom and big bubbles you know  a medium sort of high constant heat's good.  well i'm starting off with the sausages cos they need more cooking yeah  so the second thing we need is er yeah mushrooms.  so i've got some mushrooms and tomatoes here yeah  so got these lovely like field mushrooms which are fantastic  just turn it up a little bit.  just - you can see - the sausages are getting nice and brown  and i slice the mushrooms quite thick about a centimetre thick yeah  sort of like that. and actually if you cook field mushrooms well  and you don't put too many in a pan right they taste so fantastic.  you can use any mushrooms you like just don't use button mushrooms  which i think are like the worst mushroom in the world  so as soon as you put 'em in cos they're a little bit like sponges  toss 'em over and they get all that  they get all that lovely juice as well and kind of make one layer.  what we doing next? i'm gonna cut these tomatoes in half yeah  and i'm just gonna like put them cut side down in the pan  and like all this is cooking at the same time.  like this is the easiest fry up cos you can see it all happening  and like as long as you get your orders right  you know your sausages cos they take longer  then your mushroom, then your tomato then get your bacon in  and as long as you get that right it's it's just easy peasy.  so i've got some nice bacon here and this is dry cured bacon  pretty normal bacon from the supermarket and you can feel it's dry  cos it's not got all the horrible water in it doesn't shrink so much you know.  so like people do cook things really badly and i've  honestly i've been to some of the poshest hotels and had the most expensive  and the worst fry ups of my whole live.  you know - how at 28 quid for a fry up and it's like...  you know i'd much rather go down the greasy spoon  and get an alright one for 2 quid you now.  we want the bacon to be nice and crispy so while that's happening  i've got the grill on and i'm gonna do some nice thick chunky bread.  i like thick - you know thick toast oh... it's beautiful. here what you up to?  just getting some orange for the girls. how's it going?  lovely! - right so i'm gonna whack the old toast in now  babe can you get us some butter out of the fridge and butter some toast for me?  i can get it out the fridge but i'm not buttering it - i've got guests.  do you hear that? - did you hear that?  see this is what i'm in my house for...  what did she say?  no to be honest i'm looking after the guests. dear oh dear.  look at the old tomatoes now - they've gone nice and brown  yeah look at that.  now this is the trick right  it's alright - it's me. things like pine nuts and toast i always forget.  and i burn... right... get the toast in  so basically this is the clever bit now what we have to do is jingle  and jungle everything up so every little area side to side  middle to middle - everything's gotta a bit of everything do you know what i mean.  what we're gonna do - we're gonna crack the eggs in and just kind of angle it  so the whites kind of go a little bit everywhere  and what we do is we do it sort of from side to side and  what happens is it kind of sticks everything together which sounds repulsive  but believe you me at 12 o'clock at night it sounds beautiful.  and means that you can like cook it and then put it on to a big plate and it holds  it's like a big frisbie mate. it's like obviously very classy  and then you put a little bit of pepper over the edge  yeah i'm really pleased with that and then... oh gawd...  alright - right so toast nearly burnt but it's blooming good  perfect cooking for me.  right so - what happens now is now... now the bottom's had a you know  it's perfect cooking - i'm just gonna pop it under the grill for  literally 30 seconds just so the top of the eggs get nice and coloured  so we're done - let's get...  let's put the thing on there, lovely...  i keep the eggs nice and soft, and there we go, that is the world's best fry up.  don't tell me if i serve that to the queen right  i tell you what she will be chuffed me old mate. right girls come on...  naked's what i call my way of cooking  what i cook in the restaurant isn't what i cook at home.  cooking's gotta be a laugh.  it's gotta be simple. it's gotta be tasty. it's gotta be fun.  i suppose you could say it's striping down the recipe to its bare essentials.  no way it's me - it's the food.  my mate tim's coming over from germany  we worked in an italian restaurant together  and i'm just checking his flights  he's coming from hamburg and he's going to london stanstead airport  and it's all on time.  have you got anything special planned for tim's visit?  not really - he kind of shook ma little bit because i just  well you know typical me... oh yeah we'll do this  and i said oh we should get a reunion sorted and then he like  e-mailed me back about 4 days ago  and said i'm coming i've booked the flight  so it was like oh oh gotta get a party together quick.  so i'm basically just get all of the people from work,  that we used to work with. do an italian meal.  so i've gotta do a fair bit of shopping  not much it's pretty simple cooking actually.  and then i've gotta go and pick him up a bit later  i'm gonna do him a big sign don't know what i'm gonna write on it yet  but i've always wanted a welcome like that at the old airport.  and i've never had one.  ah bonjourno...   belissimo...  can i have 10 slices of your best pachuta my friend? graci  you taste it?  yeah lovely... graci  fantastic  belissimo - can i have the mozzarella...  graci that's beautiful...    right my darling i'm gonna make a fantastic salad  it's all around like mixed leaves  you can have what you like to be honest but - er - let me get a plate or two.  big plates - honestly they'll do you a favour  buy a couple of plates and it makes life so much easier  chuck it in the middle of the table none of this plated up business.  which you can get in the supermarket  which it's just peppery and a little bit more interesting really.  all you have to do is like scatter the old salad all round the plate  really really casually sort of one layer really  do you always use a salad spinner?  actually i used to slag 'em off like you wouldn't believe.  i tell you what i've found lately instead  i mean it's dead - it's dead tempting to buy those bags of salad isn't it?  i mean i've done it  you open them and they just go horrible really quick  and sometimes they're bruised or haven't been spun properly  and a bit too wet  so i just - and it's much cheaper to go and buy your own ones  but you know it doesn't take any more time.  give them a little wash spin 'em in the old salad spinner  and then if you put 'em in the fridge with the old lid on  i think maybe because it's protected by that  the fridge doesn't sort of ruin it  and make it sort of wilt quick so you know it's dead good.  and then let's - i've got these fantastic pucker peaches, pucker peaches mate.  fruit in salads - very, very under rated not done that much really.  you could peel the skins but i actually like the skin personally but  just give 'em a wash.  so all i do is you just cut it like an avocado in the middle - right - twist it  that comes out and if don't come out  it ain't ripe so you shouldn't be using it in the first place.  try that my old darling. have a nosh on that. mmm- lovely.  and then you just rip it like that and a ripped peach looks so much better  than a cut one. because it just doesn't look commercial and horrible  so i just do that to all of them. peaches are there.  i've got some - got some nice mozzarella yeah and er - got this from the deli  and it's buffalo mozzarella sounds bit weird  but buffalo mozzarella is much nicer in salads  it's really soft and milky as opposed to the sort of  the cheaper stuff which is better for pizzas.  so give it a try - you can get it in the supermarket actually  so just open the bag up and again just rip it into nice little mouth sized pieces  and just kind of put it around the plate in  and around the peaches and the leaves and stuff.  is it called buffalo because it's so big?  no - it's buffalo because it's buffalo milk.  but they're also very big so yeah.  but er - you're so sweet darling. there you go.  and i think that looks amazing already, so what have i forgotten  oh yeah - parma ham - get this in the supermarket get 'em to slice it for you.  ask them if you can taste it first the parma ham right and if you just notice  if it's too thick, sometimes they do it too thick and it drives me up the wall.  it's like eating a bit of old shoe... so say can i have it a bit thinner please?  just get a nice strip like that and just tear it up  and just kind of almost sort of drape it in and around the cheese  and the peaches and the leaves.  i can't really stress how fantastic this salad is  because if you imagine like the peppery leaves  like a bit of oil and lemon over it fantastic yeah  salty like parma ham right  and the milky mozzarella and the juicy, juicy peach.  fantastic  just a little bit of salad over the top just a little  and got some lovely mint here  just kind of pick it - rip it -just a little bit on the top's quite fresh  and i think brings the flavour of the peaches out quite nice  and once we get a nice bit of oil and lemon juice on there be lovely.  but i won't do that now because i'll have to do it later  otherwise it'll kill all the salad leaves.  so you can sort of do it this far in advance?  i can do - well - i should do it there and then but i can do it this far in advance  and get away with it  so all i have to do now is take it out the fridge a little bit  before i need it so it just gets to room temperature'ish  squeeze a couple of lemons, double the amount of olive oil  bit of salt and pepper - all over it. beautiful mate.  and a bit of bread with it or something?  yeah    two nuts chocolate torte cheesecake mould  but you can pretty much use anything you like really.  i just find it easy cos you can click it out.  butter - 250 grams of butter.  what do i need? oh - grease proof paper - right -just rip off a bit  little square that you know is gonna cover it yeah?  and what i do - bit like making a paper airplane  actually it's nothing like making a paper airplane  you fold the paper in the middle and then you turn it around  fold it into the middle.  then you basically you just keep folding into the middle - like that  i do one more - so you guess or much that is into the middle  put your finger where it is and just rip it up.  ohh - lovely! - so that's gonna line the bottom yeah.  we just need to get a bit of butter on it and that'll stop anything from sticking.  so just very thinly line the bottom and the sides  and just put a bit of butter on this.  yeah - lovely - and then stick that on the bottom - nice and snug.  right - so there's nothing gonna stick. right - forget that now.  so - i need 300 grams of nuts it's called 2 nuts taut  because it's got two nuts in it basically  we've got walnuts and almonds and i need 150 grams of each yeah  which is pretty simple to remember.  and these are 100 gram packets so there's 100 grams of almonds  there's 100 grams of almonds  and i'm not gonna get the scales out or nothing like that.  just pour out the nuts and divide it into two - same with walnuts  i think where at all possible not use the scales okay.  so just divide the old nuts into half again.  what i'm gonna do - got the old magimix chuck the nuts in there - okay.  and we're gonna whizz it up until it's a powder - 30 seconds, 40 seconds.  lovely - so look what we got yeah it's fantastic  that's what it should be it's like powder.  right chocolate - it is a chocolate taut we need 300 grams of chocolate.  one we're gonna put here - two  i'm gonna crumble up 200 grams of this  and chuck it in with the nuts and er we're gonna whizz that up as well.  makes a bit of a noise but you just wanna break it up into pieces. - alright?  better than watching telly.  anyway we'll lose this into a bowl now we're gonna put the butter in here  just plonk the whole lot in there rip it into two or three.  we need 100 grams of sugar lovely. and pour that in.  and that's just for a little bit of extra sweetness.  and we wanna whizz this up for about whip - i wanna whiz  whizz this up - so it gets nice and shiny and creamy.  so i need 6 eggs yeah - cor organic of course.  i'm gonna crack my eggs in here very carefully.  and then what i do - i pinch the yolk and plop 'em in one by one  and that's gonna really enrich and that.  and make it nice and silky and beautiful.  lovely - all you have to do now is get it all together  so just mix these up until it's nicely mixed.  right - now the best bit egg whites.  flavour -lift - we have to get 'em together,  but i wanna get these really stiff so at the last minute  add a good pinch of salt and that kind of helps it to be stiff  and whip it up my old darling.  i've got a bit of a mad day because i've got - got to go and pick ...  has given me some mushrooms for the main course and  and now i've gotta go and pick up tim from the airport  so i can't be late otherwise the poor old boy  he thinks he's going into london cos it's stanstead airport  but it's not as central  it's out in the wilderness where i come from so he'll be getting... london  jamie where are you?  done. right so - er add a little bit first  fold it in just to loosen it.  now as it's air that we've got in the egg whites  what we need to do is get it in there into the mix  without sort of knocking all the air out of it - otherwise it won't rise.  so what we do is we call it like a folding action  do sort of movements like that that kind of fold in from the outside to the middle  and maybe change and go from the middle to the outside.  it's good for a couple of days  i mean when it's got a bit stale just crumble it up  and add some ice cream over it. mmm- baby - so here we go.  shake it so it's flat. and you can cook it straight away  but the reason i held this other  if you get the chocolate and just push it in with your finger  and just sort of put it here  there and everywhere.  cos when they cook - when you cut into it  you have that lovely like sea of chocolate  that lovely taut and then there's just a little bit with like running chocolate  that comes out - it's fantastic and i love that.  beautiful - in the oven about 190 for about an hour  just test it with a little knife if it comes out clean - we're off mate.  cool. let's go  how are you?  i'm alright mate how are you?  alright  have you got those mushrooms?  yes i've got them good man  i spent all day yesterday to collect those mushrooms  and they're beautifully honestly they're nice...  show me show me show me...  okay hold on a minute... i'm too old.  you're not too old mate. - look at those yeah... fantastic...  oh thanks mate - that's brilliant.  listen... cos i'm going on the train to pick up tim  i've bought my own box cos it fits in my bag  can you just put i only need half of that lot...  ...this is too small...  no no - it's only for 7 people just half of those...  half of these ...i collected these mushroom  you just wanna bloody half of these mushroom... hold on a minute...  hello jamie baby... hi how are you?  how are you?  great not bad at all.  right you ready for tonight?  yeah that's great - so what's on the menu?  secret mate - i'm not telling i'm not telling you anything...  cheers...  so i'll see you a bit later...  i'm all day in side  see you tonight  see you later  bye  bye    so are you happy to see tim?  yeah it's fantastic seeing the old boy  still on good form - he's just having a little sho  getting cleaned up cos i said he's i said he smelt.  so what we got is thinly sliced potatoes in the tray - the oven's on full whack.  a really nice seasoning potatoes and salt and pepper  you can't really go wrong roasted, fried, whatever.  add a little bit of olive oil. just enough olive oil to coat them really.  and just sort of with your hands  just - you wanna make sure every bit every slice gets a bit.  just lay 'em out nice and flat so it's like one layer  whack 'em in the oven for about 15 minutes.  give 'em a nice good roasting yeah.  so while that's cooking got some nice mushrooms from ginaro - right.  and i'm a very big mushroom fan.  i've got chantarelle here got girolle here - the classic...  old oysters - trumpette d'amour and pierre de mouton.  right - they're not cheap. but i think wild mushrooms have character.  they have a certain flavour, certain texture - they cook in a certain way.  it's turned something very - quite normal into something that looks exciting  and that's what it's all about.  if you haven't got much money get don't use button mushrooms  forget them forever - get your chitakes or your field or portobello mushrooms  slice 'em up - cook 'em well with a little bit of this  and maybe a little bit of dried mushroom porchini - morrell  they're quite expensive but you need the smallest amount  and it will liven 'em up and make 'em taste fantastic.  most supermarkets stock little punnet of like...  do you wash them?  no - well girano very kind of him has clean them up for me  but with wild mushrooms if you wash them they'll soak up all the water  and they'll cook and taste of nothing you're diluting the flavour.  what you do is you brush them with a brush  and you get like maybe trim them up with a knife and i'm gonna fry these off  so first of all - i'm gonna just chop up a little bit of garlic  just about two cloves really just for flavour.  olive oil right - hot pan - and i'm just gonna put the mushrooms in.  and then the garlic - when the mushrooms cook the water will cook out of the yeah?  and normally that's when people think oh they're cooked.  what i will say is let the water come out carry on cooking it  cook the water away and then there's so much flavour in that water anyway  cos it's from inside the mushroom let it cook back into it again  and then you get that nice fried thing happening.  the other trick is  get a good bit of salt and pepper in it now cos like mushrooms are like  they're like sponges really and when they cook... sucking it all in  and if it's just a little bit of oil and garlic  well then yeah you know it's not the end of the world,  but if you've got salt and pepper then it's like yeah  it's tasting good you know. so - next bit is the old fish and herbs so...  i would like to serve this with sea bass but it's not always available  and it's quite expensive, so i've got sea bream  and i think they call it royal bream cos they've got a little crest on its head  which is supposed to be a crown.  so what i'm gonna do is i haven't got a plastic board so  so i'm just gonna put a bit of cling film on the board  cos i don't like fish fish on wooden boards.  why's that?  well just you know you get fish juice on the old board  and then you go and make a cheese sarnie the next day and it tastes of fish.  not very nice. so anyway. put your old fish on here -these herbs  i've got some flat leaf parsley and i've got some purple basil  but you can use any fragrant delicate herb i would  i wouldn't use tarragon but you know things like green basil, dill, fennel tops  so right. with the fillet - lovely fillets  i pinch it at the breast - breast it's not a chicken!  right pinch it at the fillet yeah so it kind of puckers it up yeah?  and then you just at an angle slice like that -just a little bit  with all of them. you can do one, two, three, four slashes  we'll just go listen can you hear starting to fry.  so it's starting to you know it's gone shiny now and the moisture's gone  and they look fantastic i'm turning it off.  and what i'm gonna do now is just er  with my hand just kind of open up that slash yeah  little touch of salt to get it in the cracks.  pinch some herbs and just sort of push 'em in there to the gap  just you know gives it the flavour a little tickle.  just finish these old fish.  right - so the fish looks pucker.  potatoes - yeah - yeah - they're soft well they're cooked,  they're soft and they're slightly golden which is just what i want  just gonna let 'em cool down a little bit cos if we start wanting to move 'em  about they'll just break because they're hot.  nice knob of butter into the old mushrooms at this point when the heat's off  and that'll melt and we'll squeeze in some lemon - probably only need one.  yeah lovely! - nice chunk of parsley right - potatoes  get like a palette knife or one of these and just sort of - where's my old cloth?  here  right - basically just scrap up the potatoes  very carefully because you don't want to break 'em  so they'll be a little bit stuck but they'll be nice and golden.  whether you do this for two people or ten just simple - simple, simple simple.  put all these lovely mushrooms and all the juice - don't leave anything  all the herbs - get it onto the old potatoes  you can mix it up anyway you like really  make sure that mushroom juice and butter and flavour goes on to the potatoes.  and just shake it - so it's flat right and it just looks so damned good now.  the fish is going on top yeah skin side up.  right - and it's going in the top of the oven so the fish skin will become crispy  but because this is already cooked at the bottom right  you're gonna heat and cook it a touch more won't get that much heat.  but it will steam and all those lovely mushroom flavours will cook into the  into the fish and then in return the fish is gonna sort of like  all the juices will cook out the fish and go into the potatoes. lovely.  so now we just drizzle it with a bit of olive oil - make it go crispy.  in the oven for about five, six minutes.    i'm gonna make a sauce to go with the fish  it's called salsa verdi and it's an italian word for - green sauce  which doesn't sound quite as impressive does it - so we use the italian.  but basically... sounds like tim's got the old basket ball...  and we need to finely chop it.  oh timmy come and give us a hand tiger!  coming  alright handsome - eh looking very swish mate.  mmm- you smell good too...  so what you like me to do then?  i've got some herbs in the old in the old frigo  you can have the big board because you're a tiger.  i'll get you a big chopper there you go mate - big enough?  thank you - that will do  so what sort of herbs have you got there?  tim chops up herbs?  basically we've got parsley, mint and basil  and classically it should just be parsley but i like the basil and mint  cos it lightens it up a bit and it's going with fish so  kind of makes sense to me. i finely chop my garlic  i need some gherkins - gherkins, mustard, capers and anchovies - there you go.  so we use about 7 anchovy fillets  very strong flavours?  yeah  smells nice -just chop 'em up.  it's a bit of chopping  i mean to be honest you can do this in the magimix  it's just that i think that when you do it by hand it looks a bit more rustic...  i have a connection with germany before before i met tim  was my first girlfriend her name was helgar buge right?  she was german and i was about 12 and she was about that much taller than me.  and i went out with her for 2 weeks snogged her mate  ...china in your arms, giving it some of that...  smooching, dancing, and i really like her and then she chucked me.  she chucked me and i cried and - but then when i went to youth club the next week  everyone was laughing at me cos she told 'em that i kissed like a cartwheel...  but it wasn't me - it was her fault anyway cos she was so tall  i was like... like a goldfish i suppose but...  i've learnt since and i've improved.  i love gherkins and i think it really really gives  you have these in germany?  yeah they come from germany  is that where they come from? what they called?  well in essex we call 'em wallies...  anyway - capers right -just a nice handful of capers. drain the old water.  and you know what we're looking for here by this stage  when we've chopped a bit is - same parts - equal parts of capers,  gherkins and anchovies right. as much garlic as you want to taste  yeah and then when you look at that whole pile  that should make up like one part to sort of four parts of the chopped herbs.  and if you do a bit more or a bit less it's not the end of the world,  but what you're doing is varying the flavours and the tanginess.  and you can vary it if you're serving it with meat - or boiled roasted meats, fish  even sort of like grilled vegetables and stuff like that are fantastic so...  that looks beautiful mate. just whack it in that glass bowl  there's some half decent olive oil over there.  i add it to loosen really... so quite a bit... little bit more  yeah that's lovely. two big teaspoons of that french mustard my old darling.  and that looks good mate.  so i'm gonna add all of this to here and we just stir it all in  it's nice and loose with the olive oil and that's what you want  so it's kind of you know it'll just fall off the spoon.  but if you taste it now - it'll be it'll be kind of bland yeah  so you need to liven it up a little bit.  you need something acid like vinegar or lemon juice and  personally i prefer vinegar so start off with about two tablespoons.  and when it's all mixed up give it a little taste.  little bit more. can you put a bit of salt in there my sweet?  just do it to taste - but talking about taste my old darling  show pat your - your tongue ring...  can you imagine having that done to yourself  i mean i couldn't do that as a chef  because you'd lose all your taste buds wouldn't you?  you don't at all - you don't taste in the middle of the tongue  you just taste on the edges... like you know - you don't taste in the middle.  it just seems a bit scary to have a blooming great rod of metal  put through my tongue. cool - taste...  fine  pucker - that'll be nice - that'll be even better in about half an hour.  naked's what i call my way of cooking.  what i cook in the restaurant isn't what i cook at home.  cooking's gotta be a laugh.  it's gotta be simple  - it's gotta be tasty - it's gotta be fun.  i suppose you could say it's stripping down the recipe to its bare essentials.  now way it's not me. it's food.  so big boy are you going to come round tonight or what?  sure.  what's happening are you cooking dinner.  yeah but i mean i could really do with a bit of a hand.  i'm going to do like this thai... scallops, clams and stuff.  and er - i'm going to do roast leg of lamb,  just roast potatoes and stuff and some baked fruit.  lovely - who's coming?  i've asked jeff - i've asked brenley - and er - the other guys from the cafe.  i've got my old table football out mate - do you fancy your chances?  fa cup finals - just gotta get out of here...  right i'll see you - well come round as soon as you can yeah  - take care.    i really really like roast lamb  - i mean a roast anything but i love roast lamb and i do do it quite often.  my mum used to do it a lot as well but er - you know  - i love it with just like malvern sea salt over and roasted in the oven  - that's lovely.  but i kind of get bored with doing the same thing all the time  so i'm always trying to have like new ways of getting sort  of flavour right stuck in there.  so first things first - what i want to do is get a knife  and stick the knife down next to the bone at one end  and just push your finger in there night - so that just makes a bit of room.  and then - at this end do the same again  - right next to the bone - stick your finger in there.  then in about sort of about 8 places around the lamb  you want to get your knife about an inch and a half okay  and stick it in at an angle okay and then shove your hand in there  - your finger in there.  and just do that kind of randomly but kind of equally  and let's do it on the other side as well.  one more i reckon.  now we're talking about flavour here - so what we'll do  - i've got this sage here - i'm going to rip off just half of it  so it's so it's just the leaves and i'm gonna keep that for later  and then this half i'm going to put in a pestle and mortar with a clove of garlic.  it seems a very simple thing to do if you've got kind of chefs coming round  - i'd expect you to do something incredibly posh and fussy i suppose.  yeah well the funny thing is  - is if you imagine chefs like the hours they do and stuff like that right  - it's almost in their own time they wanna kind of be a little bit  more sort of relaxed about it you know what i mean?  so i know as long as i give them a really nice cooked piece of lamb you know  - they're gonna be well chuffed and a glass of wine.  they're gonna be over the moon.  so with this sage, salt and garlic - just smash it up.  and that'll kind of get all the flavours really going.  and you can smell all that - do you know what i mean?  - it's just so fragrant - yeah.  right lovely and leave the rest of the sage that you've got left over whole okay?  and then we're gonna have some olive oil  - about you know 2/3 tablespoons just to sort  - oil will help the oils in the flavour in the leaves to come out.  and er - some lemon juice - give it a little bit of that so  - just squeeze that in there.  get rid of the pips  - so you've got your lemon juice in there and just chop up  - roughly chop up this rosemary that i've got with it.  just mush it up in you hands and  - the first thing i'm gonna do is get a big handful and rub it all over the meat  - so straight away the skin's gonna be tasty.  lovely jubbly.  right - then we put that next to it and get everything else out here.  right our job now  - is in these cuts that we've made kind of push  all these lovely herbs all the garlicky lemon stuff  - get it right in these holes.  push it right down and there's a little bit of salt in there as well  - so you're seasoning it inside a little bit which is great.  down the little holes that you've made - and that end up here  - next to the bone which has gone down about four inches you know  - it's right in there.  loads of flavour.  really get stuck in there.  sound like david bellamy ...shove it all in there.  what else could you use to flavour the lamb?  oh my god - i mean  - basically at the end of the day like all cooking should be you know use  - whatever you like with lamb you should do but i mean things  i've done is kind of get some nice,  really dried apricots with like smashed up thyme and butter  - i mean that works beautiful.  things like you know - simple things like anchovies and rosemary work so well.  they just work really well.  now you've got all that flavour in there and the secret ingredient  which i think is a thing called pancetta  and basically it's the italian version of our streaky bacon.  all you need really is about three or four slices.  and just shove it down the gaps you know.  where do you get it from?  you can get it from the deli - you can get it from the supermarket  - i mean it's all over the place.  it's got a slight smokiness to it  - you don't want loads of smokiness but it's got a slight smokiness to it  and that's really really nice.  and it works with the sage as well you know.  get it in there.  lovely.  so now we've done that i'm just gonna put a bit of salt on top  - it's nice to have a nice salty skin and er - basically that's it done.  i know it's gonna be really really tasty  - all we have to do now is take care of it and take care of it in the cooking.  so into a really really hot oven - about 250 full whack.  i'm gonna get the leg of lamb.  i'm gonna put it straight onto the bars right.  and put the empty tin underneath to catch all the goodness  and all the drips and all that kind of marmity lovely jubbly stuff.  how long do you cook lamb for?  well i really like to cook the lamb so it's kind of pink  - not bloody pink but kind of pink pink and er  - to do that i cook it for about 13 minutes per pound  and with an additional 20 minutes of cooking at the end of that  and then what the trick is then is to rest it  and i'm par cooking some potatoes now  and when they're ready to go in after about 20 minutes when  - you know it's coloured u - started to colour up nicely  - i'll turn it down and i'll put the potatoes in with all that lovely goodness.  these potatoes i've just boiled for like five minutes.  right and you wanna kind of chop up all the outsides  - so kind of just toss 'em about a bit - give 'em a good old shake  and then what i'm gonna do is just get 'em in the oven  - where all that goodness has just been dripping in the old tray  - loads and loads of goodness.  and just chuck in 'em there.  yeah - smell it - oh it's gonna be mad.  and just put a little bit of extra rosemary in there - cos that won't hurt.  and then give 'em a good old shake.  cos you wanna get them coated.  it's going to crispen up straight away - all nice and fluffy  - perfect meat - perfect roast potatoes.    i don't really understand why people don't use onions  as a vegetable as they are really do you know what i mean?  cos they always think of them as a base for things like soups and stuff  but like with any sort of roasted  or grilled meats this particularly dish is superb  and all you have to do is sort of remove the  - a little bit of the core,  the base to make a flat edge and then at the top just cut down  until about a centimetre and a half away from the bottom  so you don't cut it into quarters  - so you've got it like that but you don't go all the way down.  you only go down to about there  and then just take off maybe just the skin of maybe the first layer of flesh  but nice and tender.  i'm using red onions cos i like them.  they're a good - you want them all the same sort of size er  - and they're quite easily available  and when you cook them they're lovely and sweet.  but things like shallots and stuff like that are ideal as well.  i wouldn't use the white onions because they're very big and you can't  - i can't really imagine that on someone's plate you know  - like one whole onion that size.  but i mean i do it quite often cos my blooming dad keeps giving me onions  from the garden and keeps tying them all up like the french boy  and i've got onions everywhere so...  have to make use of them otherwise i feel guilty.  get a pestle and mortar.  thyme and butter.  butter's at room temperature.  nice handful of fresh thyme in.  have you got any tips for avoiding crying actually when you're chopping onions?  no - i quite like to have a good cry at work cos er  - you know you can get all your emotions out and you just pretend it's the onions.  what we're going to do now is put a good important  - good pinch of salt in there and we're going to smash it up  - and funnily enough even though thyme's quite a kind of woody herb  when you smash it up it's quite juicy.  right that's lovely and smashed up and the butter - i'll get a bowl actually.  so - put all the thyme in the bowl  - you can put a squeeze of lemon juice in there actually would be nice.  i suppose you need about four, four and a half ounces of butter  - and just kind of squelch it in your hand.  and then squelch in the thyme - there's nothing hard in it  - and that's gonna to be lovely with the old onion.  but look just open up the onion  - and what we're gonna do is put a little knob of butter inside it  and really push it in and down the cracks.  could you use different herbs or other flavourings in that butter?  oh god yeah - i mean  - i think herb butter's something that  not a lot of people use for some strange reason.  right i mean you've always got a bit of extra butter kicking about  - and you've always got kind of  - when i guy herbs there's always like a little bit that i don't use you know  - mash it up - you can do any flavour you like and just put it in the freezer.  it keeps for absolutely ages.  so basically you smear it over all of them.  top all the other up.  and i think the nice thing about this  - as these cook right the butter's gonna melt.  and it's gonna kind of drip right into the bottom of the onion  where you've made those scores and  - and you know it's just gonna give it all that flavour  and there's salt in there too so it's gonna season the onion.  what i do now is just put - sprinkle some sea salt on the bottom and er  - what this helps - just helps them stand up and also  where you just trimmed off the bottom it will just suck up a little bit of salt  which is lovely cos it helps season it around that area  which you haven't cut down to.  all i have to do to that now is cook it for like half an hour  - 35 minutes at about 220 degrees just until they kind of  - kind of sag a little bit but they'll keep their shape.  hello john are you alright?  yeah what do you fancy?  oh - mate - i'm after some scallops  - oh they look good... brilliant - hand me those.  i'll get myself nine is that alright?  cheers mate - a bit of parsley - lovely - anything that's free.  that's the lot mate thank you very much.    so for dessert i'm gonna do baked fruit which is so easy you wouldn't believe.  wicked fruit - i'm gonna make some vanilla  - vanilla sugar which is outrageous and i'm gonna make some mascaponi cream  which is just really moreish and gorgeous.  i mean all i've done right  - is i've taken the bottoms off the strawberries  - i've quartered and de-cored the peaches and put a bit of lemon juice over them  - cos they get a bit dark if you don't.  er - i've de pipped the cherries with an olive pipper.  i've sliced up the rhubarb nice and thing.  er - and with the stoned fruits i just did 'em in half  and just pulled 'em apart like an avocado.  got rid of the pip and these figs i'm just gonna sort of slice  but not quite down to the bottom like a star  and then you just squeeze it like that and they look lovely.  but there's nothing stopping you just using singular fruit and if something  - the idea is if you're going down the market and you pick up something  that's really juicy then buy it - you know.  anyway let me show you how to make this vanilla sugar.  i've got these vanilla pods from my deli- and i've got a kilo of sugar  - just normal castor sugar and these vanilla pods are pretty amazing right  - you can buy 'em in anywhere  - get 'em in any sort of supermarket or anything like that.  but when you buy 'em look for like soft sticky ones like these.  these are pretty amazing.  and all i do is chop these into about five bits - er  - just to make less work for your old magimix  - pull this out - chuck 'em in there.  and like as soon as you open it the smell is completely amazing.  chuck all your sugar in there.  whizz it up and you're going to see the sugar go like from white  - sparkling white to the most amazing kind of ashy colour.  right - and when you think that's - you've given that a right good mixing  - er - you wanna bowl - and you wanna sieve  - a coarse sieve and what we're gonna do is just do little bit at a time  and just sieve it out.  and what you'll do is you'll get all the little bits of root  than haven't quite been chopped up enough and you have this outrageous sugar here.  right so look at that.  put the bus back in and we'll whiz 'em up one more time  - get every little last bit of flavour out of there.  they cost a quid each - what's the point in wasting it?  - none at all.  so let's give it some.  i'm only going to put half of this in now. lovely.  right - so  - again just sieve it and you can tell like cos this looks really dark  and almost ashy in colour and i love all that.  and these are good things for presents you know  - like christmas - i gave one of these to my mum.  i just bought about ten quids worth of vanilla pods  and made a massive great jar of vanilla sugar.  she's still got it a year and a half later  and it's in an air tight container and it still tastes pucker.  so - get a little present.  does that sound boring - as a present?  she was quite pleased.  least she said she was anyway.  and there you go.  you can keep on running it forever.  i'm gonna stop there.  so what i'm gonna do now is we've got these lovely fruit here.  and we're just gonna sprinkle it with sugar  - now if - it's probably  - i'm probably gonna use about four or five kind of good spoons of sugar  so i cover absolutely everything.  there's so much fruit there - you gonna get through all that?  yeah there's loads of fruit there but i'm not scared about that at all  - cos any left overs i just scoop up all the juice  - all the fruit into a bowl  and you can like put it in little pots with yogurt for breakfast  or put it on toast and bake it for breakfast or you can put 'em in pots  and put like just a normal old - crumble mix on top.  you know and just bake again.  i mean  - there's no way you can waste anything from there and what am i looking for?  oh yeah brandy.  i'm gonna put brandy on here so imagine your tart fruit  - your sweet sugar - and what this brandy and the sugar  will do is kind of bake together to go really syrupy and dead tasty.  if you didn't have brandy - could you use something else?  cor yeah i'd say.  i mean any kind of nice sweet wines - whatever gets you going really.  but all you have to do now is bake it for about 15 minutes  - just enough to soften the fruit - you don't want it  - you wanna soften it enough so it's a pleasure to eat.  but you don't wanna cook it so much that it's like a load of old pulp you know  - otherwise you could just boil it up.  and that's it really.  to go with that though  - i think one of the most perfect things is er  - mascapone cream.  and you can get - this is like an italian soft cheese and it's really,  really rich and it's what they use in like tiramasu and stuff.  and you can get it everywhere now.  supermarkets, delis the whole caboodle.  it's so easy - i mean all i have to do is plonk it out  - basically sweeten it to taste so at a guess one and a half spoons  - this will be enough for like ten people - you only need a little bit.  that's the vanilla sugar again?  vanilla sugar again yeah - blooming useful.  and you've got all those lovely black dots in it from the vanilla.  presumably you could just use normal cream?  you could use double cream but mascapone  - give it a whirl or even half and half - it's got an amazing richness.  er - which i can't really explain.  real silky and it's quite heavy  - i mean it's quite fattening but you know who cares?  and i just plonk that in the table - let 'em help themselves.  lovely.  eh jamie how are you mate?  you alright mate?  yeah good to see you.  thanks for coming.  no worries - not too late am i?  no - we're cracking away mate - most of its done.    right so for starter i'm gonna do er  - a fusion broth which basically is like a noodle soup  - you can do must about anything with it you know  - vegetarian - chicken - meat - duck - whatever.  ee - but i'm gonna do kind of a posh one today with seafood cos  we wanna impress - don't we...  we do - we've got a chef coming round for dinner.  got the big boss coming  - so i've got some nice scallops in their shell  - if you can't get 'em in the shell which you can't sometimes  - you can get 'em from the supermarket and stuff - er  - sort of in little containers already peeled and ready to go.  i've got some clams as well which are quite nice  - when they open up - they've got loads of lovely juice  and i've got some nice king prawns that bend sort of butterfly...  what do you mean by butterfly?  well basically we just cut down the vein here  - remove the - the gravel sack  - and then we just open them up along the - the spinal cord.  it's quite important to remove the vein isn't it really?  yeah you don't want to... grit or anything like that.  no - cos it's what they've eaten so...  do you two cook together quite a lot then?  yeah mate two years.  we've been working together for about two years  - when i first met jamie he was er - it's amazing actually  - he was quiet head down and within about a month  you know he was just like loud,  sort of gregarious young lad... hovering around the kitchen.  quite infectious really.  what was ben like then jamie?  when i first met - when i first met ben actually  - i thought christ he looks like don johnson you know  - a bit swarvy - bit of a sun tun - open - open shirt - bit of  - couple of hairs you know there - and white pair of socks.  i don't know whether to pay you or sort of stab you...  ben do you mind if we do some herbs mate?  get a nice big sheet of er - tin foil  - toss us a bit of oil mate - salt and pepper.  yeah lovely.  imagine this is like a letter or a christmas present or something like that  - and er - just put a bit of oil on the bottom  - some salt and pepper and clams are probably going to need  the most amount of heat yeah  - just put 'em in the middle and then the second thing what we need...  is the scallops - so just lay these on top -  and then we put the prawns  - cos they'll be last and they're quite happy to cook last really.  bit of salt on top and then what i'm gonna do is i'm gonna fold this over  - so already we've got one sealed side  and then on this side we just fold it over nice and sort of clean  - and fold it over again.  fold it over again and fold it over again  - just until you start to feel the kind of  - the clams or the seafood - and turn it over  - that's the second side sealed.  and the second - on the third one here  - do exactly the same and i can feel 'em there - so we're sorted there.  and on this last one - before we seal it er  - we wanna get some moisture in there.  if you fancy you can use  - you can use water - or vermouth or whatever.  i'm gonna put a bit of white wine - just a little lug - nothing too much.  just make it steam basically - get all the juices flowing.  presumably you could cook other fish and things as well?  oh god yeah - this is such a good way to cook  - i mean you can do  - well you can do all sorts of fish can't you  - whole fish - filleted fish.  i know i used to do er - chicken - i used to do chicken at home  - and put noodles in there - chicken in there  - loads of herbs and white wine,  some olive oil and just seal it up and then like if my flatmate came home  - open up the fridge  - chuck it in the oven - half an hour it's all done.  i mean it's a wicked way to cook.  so - anyway...  nice flatmate to have?  now what i'm gonna do is just put that on something sturdy.  the important thing is you don't wanna - don't wanna crack or pierce the er  - tin foil so the juice goes everywhere - and i just  - put that in the oven for about 8 minutes you know  - 6-8 minutes - just enough to open the clams up  - and by the time the clams are open everything else will be perfect.  you're cracking on the herbs.  what have you got there?  we've got basil - we've got chervil - bit or oregano - er coriander, dill -  not that important that you got loads of herbs  - if you just like coriander and basil - then get those two.  the whole thing about this dish is it can be as easy  or as complicated as you like.  it's really it's an assembly of things  - so starting with your stock which is the base of most soups but especially this one  - it's more like a broth - yeah  - so we've got that and that's lovely and tasty.  i've got my herbs.  i've got the seafood in the oven.  i'm gonna start cooking the noodles.  i just got a - you can use whatever noodles you like  - er- got these from chinatown - they're rice noodles.  fr - and i've had 'em before and they're quite nice.  big handful of salt yeah - in the boiling water.  like pasta - you've always got to have salt.  right just move those noodles about so they don't stick.  now what i'm gonna do is my stock's boiling away  - i'm just gonna peel my ginger.  the idea really was with the chillie  and the ginger is to slice it as thinly as possible.  i'm gonna put this into my broth which is ticking over nicely  - these chillies are reasonably hot but we're taking the seeds out  which is kind of the hottest bit isn't?  so it's not gonna blow people's heads off  but you'll get that lovely kind of fragrant warmth which is quite pucker.  just cut 'em nice and thin.  i think these noodles will done now.  these just need to be cooked.  they're not like spaghetti or anything which is al dente  - they're quite soft but - they're don't - they're perfect.  shall i put those in a bowl now or?  yeah - you got to test this once.  yeah lovely jubbly.  i'll have some of that.  so i'll give it a couple of nice clams  - and a nice big scallop yeah.  right - some mixed er - chillies  - i've got some er - black beans here which i've cooked  - they were dried so i've soaked them overnight  - and just cooked 'em till tender.  er - but you can use any kind of thing really.  the beans are quite nice cos they're like little...  you know what i mean they fall down the bottom  but you know you tuck into 'em a bit later.  they're a really great colour and... contrast.  and then you've got this boiling hot stock  - serve it in this little teapot cos it looks funky.  right - and... chuck loads of herbs  - ben chuck a load of herbs in there and it's like a tea bag now  - it's like a cup of tea - i mean all those fragrances lovely.  come along - give it some of this - really is like a cup of tea isn't it?  um - looks fantastic.  going to have a prawn first i think.  you little tiger.  fantastic.  do you like it?  - do you reckon they're gonna approve or do you reckon we're gonna get the old lip?  no i approve mate - two thumbs up.  what's chef gonna say about that?  more seasoning.  it's not french enough is it?  no - right - let's... we've had our little pre dinner taster so  - get ready to do the full monty mate.  naked's what i call my way of cooking.  what i cook in the restaurant isn't what i cook at home.  cooking's gotta be a laugh.  it's gotta be simple  - it's gotta be tasty - it's gotta be fun.  i suppose you could say it's stripping down the recipe to its bare essentials.  no way it's not me it's the food.  must be a special occasion jamie if you're having your hair cut?  it's my birthday.  i'm having a party - have a load of mates round  so i thought i'd have my mop chopped - make a bit of an effort you know.  so you cooking for everyone?  yeah yeah - i've got 'em all coming round about 30 or 40 or them so...  i wanna keep it simple - i've got big loin of pork -  slice it up - big salad, salsas - shoved in a pitta bread -  posh kebabs mate - it'll be pucker.    look at this -  now the butcher's done all the hard work for me.  all i did was walk in the shop say can i have a loin of pork -  can i have it scored - can i have it off the bone -  and can you chop the bones up for me? it's all done - no mess.  so all i want to do is do some really simple things  to make it really taste superb - i mean i'm just gonna roast it as normal.  so first thing i'm gonna get some fennel seeds -  just about a couple of tablespoons and just smash these up...  pork's really good value and this is a nice free range bit of pork  and it's you know - it didn't -  didn't really costs me too much considering  i'm gonna feed about like  these fennel seeds -  just sprinkle it onto the flesh on the bottom yeah -  it's quite a nice fresh flavour - er -  and you know i think it complements pork quite well - so pat that in.  if you didn't want to use this much... could you use a smaller joint or?  yeah yeah - i mean i've got a big joint of pork  cos i've got loads of people coming round,  but do a half loin - do a quarter loin - even if it's for two or three people -  do a quarter of a loin of pork  and then when it's cooled down put it in the fridge -  it'll last for about 2/3 days - really nice in sandwiches -  the kind of the more of the point of roasting you lose -  you know what i mean -  you might as well just fry it or grill it then.  so these garlic cloves - i've just broken up the whole bulb  and i'm just gonna kind of smash it a little bit -  just to kind of squash it really - not smash it into a paste.  then just scoop it out and rub it onto this meat  and it doesn't look it's gonna do a lot  but it will infuse an immediate bit of flavour.  so - so we've done that - then just turn it round -  and i'm gonna get some rosemary into these lovely cracks do you know what i mean?  so as opposed to just having lovely crackling salt -  i'm gonna get rosemary in these little gaps and then just -  ah it's just gonna be so tasty.  so that's the pork crackling there on the top?  yeah - this is the skin and i've scored - and the butcher's scored it -  so when that cooks and the fat gets going in between  and i've got like rosemary in there it's gonna start sort of getting all greasy  and fatty and bubbling away and the skin's going to souffle up  and all that rosemary flavour's gonna go straight into it.  pull of the nice sort of tender little bits really and get rid of all the stalks.  all you wanna do is just chop up the rosemary  so it's just fine enough to get into those...  nothing exact and then kind of sprinkle it over the skin  and the idea really is to get it all in the gaps and not on top  because even though it doesn't matter if it's on top it'll burn  and you won't sort of benefit any flavour out there.  so just kind of rub it in.  are you gonna serve this hot or cold?  well i'm gonna serve it hot but you know it doesn't matter if it's cold.  i think pork's wicked hot or cold you know.  right - what we gotta do now is do a kind of little marinade - er - and...  we've got a nice big tray.  in that tray i'm gonna put all the left over bits of flavour  that haven't quite gone into the pork - all the rosemary - all the garlic -  little bits of fennel seed and quite simply put er -  a good lug of balsamic vinegar -  just enough to sort of thinly cover the bottom of the er - tray.  there you go - and some olive oil.  right so i'm gonna get some bay leaf -  and these are really nice flavour so i just pick some of these off -  so just kind of rip them up into the bottom of the tray -  and then what i'm gonna do is just put this lion - flesh side down -  not skin side down cos anything that gets on the skin will burn  and we want to have lovely golden crackling.  but the flesh side we wanna suck up all those lovely flavours,  and just leave it for about half an hour.  right so this pork's had about half an hour now -  doesn't really look much different on top cos it hasn't touched it -  but on the bottom it looks a bit different  and it'll definitely taste a lot different.  so what i'm gonna do is just push it to one side er -  get a nice big pinch of salt...  on top and that'll make it crackle and go really nice.  and then a bit underneath to season the meat as well.  and these bones that i've got chopped up -  i just put in a line -  and then just move the pork onto that and it'll lift the meat off -  off the marinade cos you don't want it to boil do you know what i mean -  you want it to roast...  so the meat juices then fall through...?  yeah cos basically what's gonna happen now is the juices will cook out the pork -  go into all that lovely marinade which has got olive oil in it  and it's gonna be like a kind of really sticky,  tasty kind of dressing type thing -  which will be really nice to dribble over sliced meat later.  i can't imagine how that's gonna look like a kebab?  no but the thing is when it's cooked i'm gonna slice it nice and thinly -  put it on a plate - little bit of salad - little bit of salsa, pitta bread -  it seems such an extraordinary thing to be cooking at home?  kebabs?  oh mate - i know that a lot of chefs are a bit kind of proud  but i'm not too proud -  i like a bit of tacky every now and again -  so no - i love kebabs - it's gonna be perfect for tonight.  yeah - so basically i've got my oven on full whack -  i'm gonna put it in for an hour -  after the first 20 minutes i'm gonna turn it down to 220  so it kind of cooks nice and sort of fast  but slightly more gentle and it'll be really nice and crispy  and golden on top and the meat will just be perfect.    okay to go with my posh pork kebabs - er i'm gonna make like a funky little salsa  which i suppose is replacement for the old chilli sauce -  so i'm gonna plonk in the old peppers - er - right on the gas -  gas hob and that's gonna kind of sear the skin -  and i just find it quicker to do it like this on the gas  as opposed to in the grill or you know to roast it.  to those two peppers i need about half a medium sized red onion -  cos they're quite nice and sweet anyway.  and i'm just gonna finely chop it.  that's that done - and then i've got three large chilies -  so i'm just gonna cut them in half,  and kind of poke out the er - the seeds and then finely chop them.  let's turn one of these.  look at that so you wanna get them nice and black like that.  you should only have to turn it three times really  cos peppers normally have bout three or four sides...  and what are you gonna give people to drink?  oh god! - well we're gonna have the normal beer and wine but er -  i've got my mate damian coming round - he's a really good barman and er -  he's quite good at cocktails.  in actual fact he's very good at cocktails  and he's gotta couple of little surprises up his sleeve for me.  i don't know anything about cocktails - er  i know - he's gonna come round in a van  and we're gonna pick up our shipment of booze.  that looks like an awful lot of chilli?  yeah but these big ones aren't very strong you know.  you adding them to taste really - the idea is that's it's quite crunchy  and quite twangy and quite hot and loads of flavour.  one garlic clove just finely chop it - ...really fine.  lovely - let's get all that in there.  let's have a look at these - brilliant.  er - yeah we're done.  so - some people put the old er - peppers once they're really blackened -  some people put 'em in plastic bags or - er - sandwich bags -  but i just chuck 'em in a bowl - and er  - cover them in cling film and they'll start to steam you can see it  and then when i come back to it in sort of five minutes time -  the inside will be lovely and sweet -  soft and the outside the skin will just pull away really easy.  right i'm gonna put some fresh parsley and some basil in here.  i'm not gonna be fussy with it i'm just gonna take the worst of the stalk off -  and then kind of roll it up -  so it's all kind of compacted and then i'm gonna finely chop it.  here we go.  i know it's your birthday jamie but does - does your party have a particular theme?  no there's no theme -  i just wanna get all my old mates together really - have a good laugh.  i don't - i'm not really all that keen on theme parties because -  well i had a terrible experience once -  i - it was my mate's 20th birthday and it was cross dressing party.  don't ask me why - it wasn't my idea - and er -  all the girls came as blokes -  i went as a woman and i made such an ugly woman you wouldn't believe  and i was in a luminous -  luminous green skirt and skirt and shirt number -  and er - i decided to walk home at the end of the night  and i had to keep diving in the ditches cos -  cos cars kept coming along and i didn't want them to see me.  and i didn't tell anyone that i'd left -  and they just found my handbag and the inside of my bra next to the pond  and everyone thought i'd drowned and they were digging around trying to find me.  so i won't ever be doing that again.  right - so just add about sort of five or six tablespoons of olive oil -  just enough to sort of loosen it up and make it lovely and shiny.  and then these peppers should be ready so basically  we just wanna kind of pull away the skin  and that's really easy now we've kind of steamed them a little bit.  you sometimes you see people wash them under the tap cos it's -  they think it's easier and it's just damn lazy really  and you wash all the lovely sweetness away - so don't do that.  anyway - a little - little bit of black skin left of them is quite nice  cos it tastes quite chary and - barbecuey - which is pretty funky.  what we have to do now is cut it in half -  and you should be able to pull out the once.  ah they're hot!  yeah it's an idea to let them get...  - ah - it's an idea to let them get a bit cooler.  ah - get rid of all the pips.  and then just chop it along - right nearly there.  and that looks yum yum.  so right so scrape it all in. in we go.  that looks superb and all we have to do now is kind of correct it all -  so good pinch of salt and a really generous twisting of pepper.  lovely! -   and actually i tell you what the other trick is -  nice little lug of red wine vinegar  because it's got a really nice twang and er -  kind of gives it that kick -  that little kick that we like with the chilli and all that funky stuff.  right so - mmm - i'm really pleased with that.  tastes really good now -  but if you come back to it in about an hour  when it's all had time to kind of amalgamate  and mix up and all the flavours are kind of getting right in there - er -  give it another bit of salt and pepper and er - that'll be really good.  hello mate.  where do you get the van?  ah borrowed it off my mum.  what is she a builder or something?  i'm in a party mood mate - how you feeling?  wicked.  promise me you're gonna give me a hand with these punches  cos i'm useless i don't know what i'm doing.  definitely.  right i've got to shoot off - get changed but can you make that sugar syrup -  yeah yeah yeah - orange isn't it?  yeah orange and a bit of mint... thank for that - see you soon.    this mozzarella and chilli salad is absolutely superb -  it's definitely one of my favourites.  get it really good -  what i have to do is just blacken the chillies -  exactly the same as i did the peppers and i just have to prick the skin first  cos i had a bit of dodgy experience once when i was at work  and i was grilling about 30 chillies and er -  all of a sudden they started exploding - i mean like really like hot hot exploding  all over my face and it really really burnt.  so got to prick 'em first and then they won't do it.  but they smell wicked.  i love chillies anyway -  but like when you've got that milkiness of the cold sort of mozzarella  and the kind of sweet hot chillies - like - to me it's just like - i just love it.  i love it to bits.  also i've got quite a few veggies - well quite a few -  i've got a couple of veggies coming tonight so -  i want them to able to put something in their pitta bread -  you know have something  these are basically ready now -  we just wanna make them sweet and make the skin come off quick.  so i just pop in the pot and er - cling film it.  and leave that for about five minutes.  er - and what i'm gonna do now - is i've got some nice mozzarella -  but i reckon the key to make this a really good salad -  i mean it sounds a bit funny is to have a nice big plate yeah -  and then er - instead of cutting the mozzarella up which looks -  i think a bit plasticy - just rip it up - and old fashion really -  i mean into quarters is kind of a good idea.  just so it looks a bit more natural and a bit kind of more -  i don't know rustic i suppose.  i just think it looks funky.  right there you go - now these chillies you can see 'em -  they've been steaming a little bit and there's loads of condensation inside.  i just test one and see if the skin wants to come off.  yeah lovely.  right - er - they're really easy to peel.  you just push away the skin - comes off really easy.  so what we wanna do now is get - just take the ends off the chilli -  cut them in half -  they smell absolutely fantastic and i just scrap all the seeds out -  right which is obviously the really harsh hot bit -  so what you're left with is fairly mild then is it?  yeah reasonably mild -  i'll try one in a minute and if i'm wrong -  i mean all chillies are different - from different parts of the world - er -  and i've been eating chillies raw one minute sort of really easily  and then the next week we get a similar looking batch in  and they're from a different part of the country  and you nosh into one and it's like ah! -   and it's just like awful but - no i think these will be alright -  and i jut basically slice them lengthways.  so if you make a really really hot chilli - like that -  what if that was really hot what do you do?  it's quite hot but it's nice as well.  oh - yeah it's quite hot -  but the thing is even though it's quite hot - it's mild hot -  when that's with all that really milky mozzarella,  olive oil and stuff it's gonna be superb.  what else would you use these for?  these chillies?  god - you can do 'em so much - er - you can do 'em with like boiled rice - er  in with noodles - and i like 'em especially in like spaghetti  or pastas and stuff like that - over grilled vegetables - in salads -  loads of stuff and just a couple you know don't put loads in -  just a couple to sort of liven it up a bit.  right - so what we do now is just really roughly sprinkle it over the mozzarella -  don't be fussy - don't do anything sort of restauranty with it -  sprinkle it all over and that's beautiful.  so then what we've gotta do is get some herbs -  and we've got some nice herbs.  i've got some purple basil and some green basil and i'm just gonna rip it up -  really kind of roughly -just over it -  purple basil is rather unusual isn't it?  i suppose it is unusual - but - you can get it in all the supermarkets now  and you know looks great and it tastes really good.  does it taste different from green basil?  slightly different yeah - slightly fresher -  slightly more kind of aniseedy i think.  the thing i like about is even an idiot like me can do it -  you just chuck it -  you know all this no positioning or anything -  just chuck it all over the place.  black pepper very important.  just do it from a height so it kind of scatters -  some nice sea salt from a height again.  and er - i've got some nice - nice olive oil.  you can be nice and generous - again just scatter it.  would you say that's a chef's tip then?  well no - no - i'm not doing it to be ponsy -  i'm just doing it because if you do from a height then -  you're not gonna get a whole load of pepper of a whole load of salt  or whole load of oil in one place so it looks a bit kind of you know -  ...no just do it.  and lemon juice i think -  you could go for balsamic vinegar which would look quite pretty  but i think that - i don't wanna hide - balsamic vinegar's quite sweet  and i don't wanna hide up the sweetness of the chillies.  yeah - lovely -  that's gonna be really nice and that looks fantastic.    this was a bit of a fluke really how this salad came about really  cos i was just walking down the er - supermarket -  getting my fruit and veg as per norm and i was tucking into the -  the peas and er - they were so fresh and sweet and it was lovely -  and i thought - oh why can't raw peas work in a salad?  so all i do is just get the old peas out and if you're lucky they'll all be small.  you do get the odd fat ball like a bullet and you don't want that at all -  so you can either cook them the next day in a different way -  or you could blanche them and put 'em in the salad,  but i personally think you know you loose the whole idea about it.  so - i've got some washed baby spinach.  all i'm gonna do is chop the old spinach in a bowl -  chuck the little peas in as well - i'm gonna really simple dress it.  i need some olive oil - a good kind of four, five second lug -  you know about 4/5 tablespoons -  just enough to coat your spinach really  and then you wanna about the same again in lemon juice  and the lemon is quite important do you know  what i mean cos it's quite a summery thing and lovely fresh crunch peas  and the lemon kind of pulls it all together so it's quite important.  just do it to taste really.  and then i wanna good pinch of salt  and a little bit of pepper  and just sort of give it a dress.  do you always do that with your hands?  well you can use tongs if you like but it just -  i like to get stuck in you know what i mean?  makes it more fun.  so let's taste one.  mmmm - yeah that's fine.  so once you've done that - just chuck the old spinach on -  on the plate -  and you'll always get left with a really lovely pile of like peas at the bottom  so once the spinach is all there - just kind of sprinkle all the peas around.  i love all that - it just - just reminds me of summertime so much.  and then - got some feta cheese.  you can buy - i bought this in a block over the counter -  you can buy in a pack or you know whatever you can get hold of.  you know funky little block like that - and i just love it to bits.  and just crumble it any old how.  would you use any other sort of cheese?  no to be honest with you in this salad it's so simple and it works so well -  feta cheese is the only one for the job because it's kind of -  it's kind of creamy - it's nice and salty -  and it's kind of a bit tangy as well you know  and i just think i can't think of a cheese that would do it to be honest.  er - and the coulour's just look great  and just sort of maybe bob it about a bit so it gets in there.  and that's just about it.  the easiest salad in the world.  and it tastes pucker.  lovely - i like that.    i got that sugar syrup done mate.  excellent.  what's that damian?  this is - this is just a sugar - sugar syrup with a -  with a bit of orange and mint.  how much sugar and water did you put in?  well i did a quarter of a pound of sugar and a pint of water  and i just reduced it to a third.  that's the base of er ...?  that's what the basic is - it gives a really fresh sort of taste.  cos we don't need all these peels and mint and there.  what is this cocktail thing - what's it called?  this cocktail's called jungle boogie - i made it for jamie -  i really appreciate that.  so what you have to do bro  is chop the pineapple and er  orange and mango into hunks.  into hunks?  into hunks.  hunks and chunks.  we use a white and dark rum...  the dark colour's a bit sweeter than er - than the white one.  and it sort of balances each other out.  so i'm gonna add that to the syrup - smelling pretty intense.  i forgot the umbrellas.  oh no.  i wanted to have a true del boy style cocktail.  now we have to do is er - add the juices - we've got some orange juice -  we've got some pineapple juice and we've got some mango juice.  so have you know damian a long time jamie.  well yeah - i work with damian and he's a choice barman - and er -  we kind of work together really - or we did work together for three years.  just - shall i put this straight in there?  yeah just chuck it in.  mate i'm sorry cos i'm getting a bit nervous now - i've got butterflies.  how many people coming over?  about 40 but if it goes pear shaped  it's just me and you mate and that big bottle of rum.  so we're gonna put a little bit of lime juice in there -  gives it a bit more flavour.  liven it up a bit.  the last finishing touch for it is to put a bit of grated fresh nutmeg on it.  how much do you have to put in?  you just - you just grate to taste.  bit like salt and pepper.  yeah exactly try it jamie.  i'm looking forward to this.  what do you think?  yeah! - that's gonna do the trick.  you look sharp - i look a tramp -  so i'm gonna get dressed and you look after yourself for 10 minutes.  sure.  naked's what i call my way of cooking.  what i cook in the restaurant isn't what i cook at home.  cooking's gotta be a laugh.  it's gotta be simple  - it's gotta be tasty - it's gotta be fun.  i suppose you could say it's stripping down the recipe to its bare essentials.  no way - it's not me it's the food.  you're early - what's this -  the element of surprise - come in have a cup of tea.  what are you up to today jamie?  well i've got my uncle alan coming round -  and he's bringing all my cousins with him, and he's popping off to the boat show,  so i'm sort of left baby-sitting so i've gotta keep them amused - er -  but they're gonna come back later and i'm gonna cook them some dinner  so i wanna make a - we're gonna have a bit of a pasta feast -  and i'm gonna make two different types of ravioli  and a thing called semi freddo  which is pretty much like ice cream but a bit more funky.  so i'm gonna go and see my mate patricia who's got a really nice cheese shop  cos the pasta's got quite a bit of cheese in it  and she always really looks after me,  so i'd better get cracking really - i've gotta get dressed -  i'm gonna knock up a bit of lunch before i go out and er - get on with the day.    right i'm gonna make this really fantastic spaghetti dish -  it's like a real good munchie kind of lunchie snackie kind of thing.  let me show you how to do it.  i'm gonna make the pangrattato -  and we're gonna sprinkle it on top of the pasta afterwards  and it's gonna give it a really, really pucker texture.  what it is is crispy bread crumbs -  you can use fresh bread if you want but i personally -  it's not as good really cos you have to fight for longer then -  but er - dried stuff is idea.  so just cut most of the crust off - don't be too worried about it.  you can rip it up - chop it up -  do what you like but i'm just gonna whiz it - whiz it in here.  just pulse this right -  and get some olive oil and get it like a four or five second lug -  about four tablespoons.  oil's getting hot - couple of cloves of garlic -  so anyway - we need some thyme now.  you can get it everywhere.  just pick it at the end here - right and just whoop down like that -  and it's really tasty -  you know it's a really kind of earthy kind of herb.  doesn't matter what you do with thyme -  if you put it into oil it always spits so be careful,  but it's not the end of the world.  right - now these are in - put your bread crumbs in -  stir them about a bit and this is - this is really quick -  this takes about a minute to get really crispy.  you can see all that's getting nice and golden now.  i'd say this is just about perfect.  the littler bits are dead crispy and the bigger bits are quite chewy and that's -  you know that's a nice thing.  that gives character.  so that's - that's hot.  leave that to cool down.  right - so what i need to do now -  i'm gonna cook the pasta and make the sauce.  water's boiling.  right for this sauce i'm gonna show you how simple it is.  all it is is anchovies - i've got - i've got some dried chillies here -  a lemon and what else do we need? - i need garlic.  couple of tablespoons of olive oil.  put your garlic in.  and just fire off the garlic -  not until brown or anything - but just so it softens up.  these particular chillies are just fresh ones that i've dried at home  and they're not that - they're not really that strong.  about five anchovies.  jiggle it around a bit.  then all you do is just get a nice lemon - i've taken most of the pips out.  funnily enough it's the lemon that makes it work cos i never kind anchovies  but you don't - when they melt away they don't really taste like that.  you get the lovely heat from the chillie -  right just check this pasta again - yeah looks pretty well.  mmm - perfect.  right - i'm gonna drain this -  and then when it's still steaming hot put it into that sauce.  and you just swill it about and take it off the heat now -  i'll turn the gas off.  and like that's all coated in like all the sauce -  it's shiny and it's just really tasty.  so just whack it in a bowl.  no mucking about - scrap out all the juice.  get all these crispy bits and just er - look at that - oooh...  you know that tastes nice don't you?  what are you laughing at?  that's how you're supposed to eat it.  actually i like these so much i'm gonna have some more.  and in cooking it won't be lost.  very soft isn't it?  unfortunately - very very fresh.  i like fat men.  you like men with a bit of meat on?  absolutely.  well give me six more months - i might be there.    this is strong white flour.  and so i do 500 grams.  like everything there's different recipes but this is one that is very,  very reliable and damn good.  so what i'm gonna do - 500 grams -  you can make - you can make this by hand in a bowl.  it's just as easy.  i'm gonna do it in this cos it just takes a little bit of work away.  i put two whole eggs in and then i'm gonna put 8 egg yolks  and the reason that i'm putting  because the extra yolk i feel give it a certain richness  which is just really beautiful.  it's really silky, gives a wicked colour and i just think you know it makes it  what fresh pasta is really - that richness.  right - so basically just gonna turn it out.  doesn't look much like pasta now.  looks like broken up... biscuits?  yeah but then you squeeze it and then you start to work it.  and now you just put all your weight into it and just keep doing this  and it'll come together as a quite dry dough.  keep giving it some until it goes smooth and silky.  so that's done really.  so just warp it up -  push it out and put it in the fridge for about half an hour.  let it rest and then we can carry on.  right so the pasta's had about half an hour to rest.  er - it's softened up a little bit, it's - it's a little bit -  you know it's gonna be a lot more pliable now cos it's relaxed.  make sure you've got a nice clean surface.  i mean you only need about that much space but i'm lucky i've got a bit longer  and you need one of these machines and they're about 20 quid  and you can get them absolutely everywhere.  it's like a mangle.  but they've got little notches here yeah -  that go up and down and that gets thinner and fatter.  so look - look at that lovely dough.  right we're gonna divide this by four and basically put three back  because we don't want these to get dry and it's nice and soft  and if the air gets to that it'll from a skin  and that'll be horrible to roll out then.  so just roll - wrap those up and with this one -  you just wanna with your hand or rolling pin  if you want just kind of level it out a little bit.  and then it's gonna be really easy  to sort of put through the machine without too much grief.  put it on its thickest setting  and we just run it through quite slowly on the first time.  see  - so now we'll start working down one by one.  some people find it easier if you dust it.  i'm not a great lover of dusting it too much  but if you just do a little bit and then right...  what does that do for it then?  well it - some people put loads on but i just put it on  and wipe off the excess and it just stops it from sticking to this  and then when it comes out of this end  and it gathers up stops it from sticking at that end as well.  right so if i leave it now -  it's getting a bit thinner and it's kind of building up here.  so you wanna kind of pull it in a bit there and flatten it out -  give it a little bit of tension.  and you can get a little bit there -  see it's pulling in a bit there - so just pull it in this bit.  and there you go - lovely.  this is done basically now.  normally i just - i'd make the ravioli straight away now  but you know if time's not on your side then make it now in the morning,  and er - you know i can do my fillings a little bit later and if you er -  layer this up quite tightly like this on a plate -  a little bit of flour - and er -  cling film it tightly so the air doesn't get to it -  it'll probably keep in the fridge for a couple of hours - really well.  i always make this amount - even if i'm just making it for myself  because even if you're only using a little bit you can make some more pasta  and i've got it like dried up there you know -  just taglitelli - papadelli whatever you want.    i'm gonna make the dessert now.  it's a thing called semi freddo  which at home is definitely the nearest best thing to ice cream.  it's very flexible you can do any flavour you like.  and i'm gonna do praline  which is basically caramel  and roasted hazelnuts which to me is just like the best combo.  so what i need is 200 grams of castor sugar -  it's not a hot pan but it's heating up now  and i need about  and what this is gonna do is loosen up the sugar,  make it a syrup  and let me show you the hazelnuts.  i've just roasted them until lightly golden.  if you look at this sugar it's starting to colour round the outside very slowly.  and then you just splish it about a bit, so it's even.  don't be too aggressive -just gently.  so what's uncle alan like who's coming round today?  uncle alan?  everyone says that he used to look like cliff richard.  cliff richard! - but er -  i don't think he looks that much like cliff richard but -  well he certainly can't sing anyway.  no there's no way alan could be like cliff richard  cos cliff richard never got married and uncle alan's had three wives.  this caramel now is light golden - carefully pour them in.  and what we're gonna do now is just cook it for about another minute.  slush it about a bit.  cook it for another minute and then look at how gorgeous that looks -  it's shiny and golden and what we're gonna -  we're just toasting the nuts now  and they're both kind of impregnating the flavour into each other really -  the caramel's getting hazelnut and the hazelnut's getting caramel.  so i'm gonna put it on a metal tray  but i mean er you can put it on a plate or anything  that's not gonna melt really.  and just put a bit of sunflower oil on - just a little drib -  rub it in and this'll stop it from sticking.  and that's ready.  superb - so just pour it in the middle - try and get all the sugar out -  be careful not to drip any on yourself cos that would be very hot.  and then just with the bottom of your spoon just push it out.  so they're all flat and then they'll cool down nice and quick.  right so this praline's been cooling down now for about 25 minutes  and as you can see it's like a big biscuit -  it's like - it's all completely solid.  but the really - listen listen -  and that's the nice thing about the metal actually  it's a little bit flexible which means you can kind of...  just whack it in here and then like pulse it.  perfect.  you've got powder and you got bits of chunk in there which is ideal -  loads of flavour - loads of texture.  so i can forget about this now - that's the nice things -  flavour done - right - and let me just make the semi freddo.  we need four eggs yolks - i need 50 grams of sugar -  okay - shove it in there.  straight in there and just whish these together until they both pale.  right now it's a bit paler -  i'm gonna add some vanilla and a good one should be sort of soft -  not dry - soft and slightly sticky if you're really lucky  and you just cut it near enough the tip - all the way down the middle right -  and then inside you've got all the beans here -  you just get the point of your knife and just run it right to the end  and you get all of that and it's dead pucker.  just scrap it on the old whish.  to me vanilla pods is probably one of the most amazing ingredients -  in the kitchen i just think it's stunning.  you wouldn't use vanilla essence would you for this?  no, - it just smell so different.  anyway don't chuck away these cos obviously 70p each  they're worth quite a bit -  pop it in a little pot of sugar and that'll infuse its flavour into the sugar  then you've got vanilla flavoured sugar.  just look at that.  all those black dots - i mean how funky is that?  it is isn't it?  but again just whisk like mad  and it'll get slightly thicker and a little bit more paler.  beautiful right - double cream -  when this cream gets like nice and thick -  sort of ribbon stage - like that see? - not thin anymore is it?  we're ready to rock and roll with the egg whites.  okay - the thing is with the egg whites -  just a little pinch of salt - just before you start whipping and  you can't taste that though can you?  no you can't taste it but what it does is it -  it does something to the eggs and it makes it capture the air more  and be stiffer which is exactly what we want so -  so look you can see it getting bigger and bigger already.  not quite.  nearly.  see - wicked.  right we've got loads of air in the egg -  got loads of air in the cream and we've made a lovely flavour right -  so what we do is we just pour most of this praline - most of -  leave a bit into the cream and just pour all these egg whites on top of that -  and very gently fold it in - you're not being aggressive with it -  do you know what i mean you're just folding in the flavours  just to kind of gently mix it together.  if you bang it together with a whish or even with a spoon all that air  that you've just been trying to put into the egg whites  and the cream just disappears and you can hear it bubble  and you don't want that so just fold it in and when you're just about there -  and have a little scoop round the middle to make sure you haven't -  there see that there - got a bit there -just scoop it in.  now i'm quite happy with that now -  there's some chunks of stuff there but i like -  i like it quite marbled.  you could use that praline for all sorts of other things.  i'm sure couldn't you?  oh god - you use pralines for everything -  and all you have to do is get some really nice vanilla ice cream -  nice big ball of that and sprinkle it on top  and it tastes wicked i tell you what i have done sometimes actually - er -  got a couple of packets of maltesers and this sounds really,  really drab but you just whiz 'em up so they're like chunky powder  and put them on top - and they're really nice -  i tell you really, really tasty.  scrap it all from the sides -  yeah -just shake it so it levels out a little bit  then with this left over praline just sprinkle it on top.  i know the kids are gonna love that - right up their alley.  just chuck it in the freezer -  bout - i suppose it will be ready in about 40 minutes.  hello mate you alright?  nice to see you -  looks like you've got the short straw today eh?  have a nice time at the boat show and you gonna come by for some food later?  take care - see you mate.    how's it going girls alright?  right i am making the fillings for the ravioh and i'm making two fillings.  first one is potato, water cress and cheeses from patricia  which will be lovely jubbly and the potatoes are ready  so i'm just gonna drain these and i've also put in four cloves of garlic  which i've taken the outside off.  i'll show you one.  and when they're cooked with the potatoes - see how soft they are see - wicked. so.  do you leave those in then?  yeah leave them in cos they've got no skins or anything like that  but when garlic cooks like that it gets very, very mild and er -  i think it just adds a good edge to the potatoes really -  so let them drain for about three or four minutes -  let all the moisture sort of evaporate off and -  so i've got some really nice gorgonzola and some pecarino from patricia.  lovely - that's gorgonzola - it's really, really nice - nice and crumbly.  really tasty - quite a strong flavour  but when it's in with those potatoes  it's going to chill out a bit - be really nice.  and i've got this pecarino which is i suppose you could say you shouldn't say  but you could say it's quite similar to parmesan.  it's slightly softer, nice and sweet - not sweet sweet but sweeter.  just chuck in there -  the garlic will go to you know to a paste  and mix in really well.  while this is hot i'm gonna get all these flavours in there  so they're all kind of melting and all the flavours are happening.  so i'm gonna use about half of this to start with -  just gonna break it in there.  and this pecarino just take skin off -  that pecarino does look a bit like parmesan.  yeah but it's - it's softer -  it's hasn't been aged as long - i really like it actually.  what i need to get now is some butter.  i'm just gonna use about an ounce just to enrich it a little bit.  i've got some really nice watercress - er  what makes it really nice then?  well just look at it - it's really green -  big fat leaves and it's really mustardy and i love all that -  it's really pucker i've dumped it in water like i do with basil -  shaken it about a bit so it's nice and clean.  so let's put that in there -  this is gonna start tasting really good now.  at this stage i mean it looks like mashed potato doesn't it?  you imagine that with maybe some more butter in it you know - er  with a nice bit of roasted cod or like you know fish and... lovely.  i'm really happy with that -  so that's one filling done i've got to check on the next filling -  so i'll go and see what the girls are doing with the broad beans.  superb.  alright - so i've got my lovely broad beans.  first things first - get the broad beans - gonna go straight into boiling water.  and then absolutely no salt in there  because salt actually makes the outsides of the broad bean get tougher  so we can just season it later - not now.  now whereas the base for the other ravioli was potato  and that was lovely jubbly and it's finished,  this one is gonna be ricotta - it's a very,  very crumbly kind of light cheese and you know it's very very young.  it's not got loads and loads of flavour but it's kind of fresh -  it's got like a real milky taste and i like that.  so make sure it's really,  really fresh cos it does go off quite quickly compared to other cheeses.  so i'm just gonna put this ricotta in a bowl -  these have been in for about a minute  so  - gonna pour those in there.  drain it off a bit.  i'm gonna try and finely chop some and then leave the other quite coarse  and what happens then is that you're kind of getting lots of texture  and you can see what you're eating which is nice.  also you're getting loads of flavour in there as well and you want that.  what i'm gonna do is pour this into the bowl -  you can put as much mint in as you like but i just do it to freshen it up -  so you just keep tasting.  and it's funny cos this herb actually makes the dish a lot lighter really tasty  and it goes with broad beans so well  so i'm just gonna chuck this in with the broad beans -  it's still a little bit hot - i can put a pinch of salt in now -  and a little bit of pepper cos we didn't season that in water.  and give it a good little lug of olive oil cos that'll get all the flavours happening  and just toss it over a bit.  bout half a lemon.  what we've gotta do now is grate some parmesan.  you only want a little bit - about a handful.  right so nice handful of that.  get a fork and just fork it through and you can see how crumbly  and light this ricotta is - it's a wicked base for this.  and this is what i do -  is this mixture just pour it all into here.  and just fold it in.  fold it in and mash it up -  do whatever you have to do to get it stuck in there  and you can see it's got a brilliant colour now.  just taste a bit.  mmm - that's perfect so basically we've got two fillings done -  and what i've gotta do now is show you how to make a ravioli.  just brush off the excess flour right -  and you get a little bit of your filling  and you want about a dessertspoonful and then get a little bit of water -  brush round the edges - all four sides and once you've done that -  look at the corners -  cos it's the water that's gonna stick it all together  and that's really important so don't forget it -  just fold it over, push it together there so this side's now sealed.  come over here and push that side together cos that sides now sealed.  and then put your two little fingers -  curl your thumb round and just do that and just -  and then you've just got one bit left.  don't just b... it  cos you'll get a bit of air stuck in there - you don't want that.  start from one end, and get rid of the air.  and there you have it - perfect ravioli - no cracks,  no nothing and then just take with a cutter,  just trim it off and what that does -  it doesn't just cut a pretty shape in it  it kinds of pushes the pasta together. so it means it's not gonna burst open.  could you use a knife?  yeah you could use a knife - in actual fact it's -  it's quite cool to use a knife as well cos this is quite an obvious thing to do,  so i just chuck this straight into boiling salted water -  give it about two minutes for that sort of size and then just fish 'em out -  shake 'em off on a plate.  come on girls give us a hand then.  grab a plate and grab a spoon.  you watching.  this is like blue peter this is.  grab a bit of filling about that much and then put it in the middle of one side.  not too much water though - just brush round the outside of it.  what happened to your one?  fold it over like that.  and then - then squeeze all around it.  so yours are wicked.  i think i'm gonna employ you - bit of cheap labour.  had a good time.  you haven't destroyed the place then?  naked's what i call my way of cooking.  what i cook in the restaurant isn't what i cook at home.  cooking's gotta be a laugh.  it's gotta be simple  - it's gotta be tasty - it's gotta be fun.  i suppose you could say it's stripping down the recipe to its bare essentials.  no way it's not me it's the food.  you're up very early this morning jamie.  yeah it is a bit early isn't it -  no i've got my girlfriend jules coming round for lunch today -  i've been neglecting her a bit lately so er -  down the flower market... and get some nice flowers -  see if i can er - make up some lost ground.  are you gonna cook anything special?  yeah yeah - i've got a really nice fish dish -  a really good one and er - i'm gonna do like baked chocolate tart -  which is like spot on so - she's made for chocolate anyway so...  supposed to be an aphrodisiac isn't it chocolate?  hi - could i have a couple of the white and one of the light blue please.  lovely - thank you very much - cheers mate - bye.    right this chocolate tart is a real cracker.  i've gotta sweet pastry tart shell - in the freezer, completely frozen -  just gonna whack it in the oven for about 10 minutes so it's slightly golden.  er - cos it's frozen it doesn't seem to shrink -  that's a bit of a trick and er - i'll get on with the filling.  so i need some butter - unsalted butter - i need 140 grams.  and i'll just guess it -  it's about normally about 3/4 of a pack and i just weigh it to check.  ooh bad guess. i'm losing it. let's try again.  that's right - so 140 grams of butter and then i've got the chocolate here yeah.  it's dark chocolate.  it's 70% cocoa solids which is -  basically this is the best stuff i could get in the supermarket.  so it's 150 grams of chocolate in there.  i'm gonna need a pinch of salt in there.  just a little one.  when i worked in france i worked with this really good french patisseriere  and he always used to say to me - er when you cook with chocolate  you must always put er a little pinch of salt in there  and it brings out the flavour in the chocolate  which is like a chocolate bases and er one we sold without  and it made all the difference - it really made it lovely jubbly and yummy.  so - pinch of salt.  cocoa.  i need 8 sort of levelish tablespoons of er  here we are  eight levelish tablespoons of cocoa powder  and that's gonna give it a really good bitterness.  er - but by the time we've put all the other stuff in there  it won't be horribly bitter - it'll just there in the background.  so do you think chocolate tart is something  you'd always make it you wanted to impress a girlfriend?  i think it's a good thing for the girls cos the girls tend to be er -  rather into the old chocolate you know.  yeah definitely.  i think it's quite a romantic thing you know - chocolate.  i'm just gonna put a little bit of water in a pot.  er - put it on a little heat.  and let it melt slowly.  just forget about it - give a stir every couple of minutes.  butter, the chocolate, the cocoa,  the salt all mixed up - be nice and shiny and lovely.  that's basically the base for the cake yeah -  where all the flavour's at - that's where it's all happening.  what we need to do now is get the other side of the cake  which is kind of the lift and the texture.  and for that i've got four eggs - large, free range.  nice yellow yolks you know.  now i need to put  castor sugar.  just whisk it up.  one dissolve the sugar and also to get a little bit of air in the there  and give the whole texture sort of like a really kind of light pale,  fluffy consistency.  so are you planning quite a romantic day today for juliette?  yeah well kind of -  it's a bit of a miserable day so i'm a bit annoyed at that.  but er - yeah i'm gonna make a nice lunch -  go out for a nice walk.  chill out.  might do something nice in the evening.  just spend a bit of time together really.  bit of quality time.  try and get in the old good books again mate - get out the dog house.  right, so that's nice and smooth yeah.  and then we've got two little secret ingredients  which are a bit different from the norm.  got some sour cream and some golden syrup.  and basically - the old sour cream gives a lovely kind of acidity -  little bit of a sourness which is beautiful - makes all the difference.  lightens it up a little bit and i want three tablespoons of that.  you can use creme freche if you wanted.  the sour cream's slightly more yoghurty.  creme freche is probably a bit more creamy  but they both have that really wonderful sort of acidity which is lovely.  and then we've got this golden syrup - nice traditional sort of ingredient.  quite old fashioned really?  quite old fashioned yeah -  but i tell you what this - it gives this tart yeah?  it gives it a nice kind of toffeeness which is good for flavour  but also you know gives it that little bit of a chew.  and i like all that.  makes a bit of a difference and three tablespoonsish of that.  must be fantasic having a boyfriend who can cook?  you reckon?  you tell that to my girlfriend.  she just thinks i'm a bit strange.  the other day she came walked in and found me watching -  the telly was on and she found me watching the rotisserie  and the roast chicken just going around.  she thought i was really weird and very sad.  so just mix this up together.  just until it's smooth basically.  right - so that's all done. that's all mixed up.  let's just check on the old choc.  ...can use this spoon again.  nearly there.  so this is where all the chocolate is really like mega flavours.  just lovely and shiny.  right so now i will get my spatula which is a bit of a handy tool in er -  in the dessert situation because it means you can get everything out of the bowl  and why it's important to get everything out of the bowl is cos like desserts  and baking and stuff is a bit more like chemistry as opposed to cooking.  now whereas you're doing sort of roast and meals and stuff you can be a bit more -  you can personalise it a bit more freely and do  what you like but quite important to weigh everything you know  what i mean otherwise you find that either doesn't taste as nice  or it hasn't risen or something like that.  which is always a bit of a downer.  ever had any terrible disasters?  oh mate - i've had so many disasters you wouldn't believe - i've lost count.  i've had so many bad ones.  yeah - i mean i make all my mistakes at home.  i try to anyway.  right - that's looking good - right - tart shell.  so the tart shell i put in for about 10 minutes i suppose -  just until it's slightly golden and we know it's just about cooked.  but we're gonna plunk this straight in there now  and it's gonna go mad - absolutely mad.  the chocolate's gonna puff up - look absolutely pukka.  just carefully put it in the old oven - i normally spill it at this stage.  and i cook it for about 40 minutes at about 150 - be spot on.    i'm gonna make a really, really fantastic salad -  it's so simple i'm almost embarrassed to tell you about it.  but basically it's a combination of raddish -  quite mustardy and fennel - really nice and aniseedy -  really like crisp - little gem of a salad.  what's i'm gonna do right - get myself a bowl.  i got these from the supermarket.  it's a really good thing cos like just lately in the supermarket  i mean like over the last 2 years, er -  like we've got loads and loads of radishes all a sudden.  like we used to have to have the boring old round ones.  now we've got oval ones and we've got oval ones with sort of white bits  and they look funky and some are really mustardy  and some aren't quite so mustardy.  you get those big er - what they called - mouly sort of like the asian type ones -  black ones, white ones.  no it's just brilliant.  i think they're terribly,  terribly underrated and really, really tasty.  so what i do is basically these have got lovely leaves on - er -  i've given 'em a wahs.  there's no dirt of anything on -  i just cut the stalks off about an inch above the raddish  and as far as i'm concerned that is perfect.  i wanna eat all of that -  you know there's no point in chopping in all away  and then what i do is just slice off one end  and then i roll it onto that flat edge  and then just slice as fine as i possibly can.  is it something that goes very well with fish - this?  oh you wouldn't believe how good it goes with fish.  if you imagine like the nice sort of fragrant tasty old fish  and then this kind of zing really nice sort of crunch salad.  i mean to me that just makes complete sense.  and that's what cooking's all about really you know -  you don't just do things because they're fashionable or cos you're told to -  you do things cos you like to eat them together do you know what i mean?  i've got some leaves here.  right - and you just pick out any dodgy ones -  i won't want all of them but i'm gonna keep about half of them.  just er - finely slice 'em.  they're really tasty as well.  and we always chuck 'em away in england.  i don't know why - nothing wrong with it at all.  they're quite like sorrel - almost you know quite a fresh flavour.  what does sorrel taste like?  you know when you put a battery on your tongue -  gives you that kind of zing -  well it's kind of like a very light version of that -  it's quite zingy - quite juicy, quite fresh.  and er - basically quite nice.  and i'll show you these old fennels - look at these.  absolutely fantastic.  you can do anything with this.  you can roast it.  you can stew it - you can pan fry it.  you can do what you like with it.  it's really, really fantastic.  but in salads they're brilliant and i'm just gonna take the old bottom off.  right - and normally you can pick that old bit off -  put it in stocks or whatever.  in actual fact i'll keep that - er - and put that in the fish.  it'll add loads of flavour and then round the top just take it off and er -  i've got these bits left over in actual fact  i'll put those in the old fish as well.  that's - some people chuck that away and it makes me really angry.  it's like the herby part and they're absolutely fantastic - really delicate -  really good looking - really fresh looking,  so we'll keep them for salad.  what i'll do is put the old fennel on a flat edge  and just slice it as thinly as you possibly can.  just keep turning it onto its flat edge and you just get really nice big shaves.  and if you've got one of the mandolin things  you can use one of those - be bit careful.  the raddish and the fennel -  they're quite strong flavours aren't they both them?  yeah - well i mean i think they're fantastic.  i mean the thing is right  sometimes flavours like have a bit of a ruck do you know what i mean  and it doesn't work,  but quite frankly i reckon these are like best mates do you know what i mean.  they have a real good laugh together and i think it really works.  and you know sometimes it works like that and sometimes it doesn't.  but whop all that in there.  the old fennel tops just roughly or finely chopped.  chuck 'em in there and then i want some oil -  just about two or three tablespoons -  basically just enough to cover what you've got.  er - i probably need about a lemon - one lemon for this - er -  but you do it to taste normally.  i don't want any pips they're horrible.  get that in there and then at a guess i wanna good pinch of salt.  a good pinch of pepper and then just mix it all together.  and the colours you know i can feel it's lovely and crunchy and actually -  just get a plate -  get all this nicely mixed up and let's have a little taste.  ah yeah - that's -  i know this is the most simple recipe in the whole wide world,  but to me things like that, that work just sum cooking up all for me -  especially at home,  you want things to be simple, you want really good results.  and i'm just well chuffed with that.  that's what cooking's all about.  and so quick?  so quick mate - i'm excited.  see you after long time - it's nearly 3 weeks.  you look smashing.  really nice you look.  so you ask me to make something really nice for you?  yes mate - i'd like some of your lovely bread -  just a little loaf or something.  oh my god!  you always do exactly the same thing every - always go over the top.  you pick him up and you say juliette...  because i'm busy and you know you're busy as well...  that's beautiful mate.  - okay look after yourself - chow.  take care.  chow bella!    i wanna do some new potatoes to go with the fish.  i'm doing it really really simply  but there's a real kind of knack of doing if really, really good.  and what i did - i got my new potatoes  and i give 'em a scrub with a green scrubber -  so that kind of layer of skin has come off and it kinda leaves it a bit rough.  so when you put all the lovely oil and herbs and lemon juice on later it just...  it just coats it - sucks it all up and just -  the all round potato tastes absolutely beautiful  so what i've done is i've just boiled them once -  after i've scrubbed them in salted boiling water.  and i've got some really nice dill.  all i do is just pick off all the nice bits,  get rid of the horrible fat stalks.  tell you what is was so nice of genoa?  to do that you know - bake the bread for me.  he's done it for me - he does it for me all the time.  but italians are so romantic and you tell him you're cooking for your girlfriend  and they start doing heart shapes and big ones and -  kind of makes me feel a bit bad about all the times  i've stitched him up at work.  i remember once we had a big shipment of the white truffles come in  cos he was a mushroom man -  he used to deal with all that and they're like 1400 a kilo  and he was kind of brushing them and weighing them to make sure that ship -  you know the shipment was er - you know all above board and so on -  the old invoice - and the phone went and he went to answer it  and i went and swapped about a 1000 worth of truffles for new potatoes and er -  when he came back he started realising that things weren't quite right  and he started sniffing 'em and groping 'em and started swearing in italian  and i disappeared the fridge kind of like really laughing  looking through the kind of joint in the door.  then after about three minutes of that he turned round  and saw me like really like laughing my head off  in the corner in the fridge and er -  ran over and said don't ever do that again -  you nearly give me a heart attack!  oh god i feel bad.  right so just chop this - er - dill up -  ...kind of rough and then just chuck it in an old bowl.  see how these are going.  yeah - the nice thing about really good new potatoes is that  they should be almost creamy - do you know what i mean -  these are really... good - mmm -  shake off all the steam.  but we'll let 'em go for a minute  but while they're still hot we're gonna dress them  and that's just gonna make 'em taste so good you wouldn't believe.  and the funny thing is it's really simple things like a little bit of scrubbing,  dressing 'em while they're hot - things like that,  that make things taste so much better and people always go what did you do?  so you think it's the little things in cooking that make the difference?  i think it's the little things and the little bit of care that counts.  just put 'em in - bit of dill - squeeze over a lemon.  olive oil -just a little lug - enough to coat.  salt and pepper.  and just dress it - or toss it - mix it up - whatever you want to call it.  would you use any other herbs other than just dill?  oh god yeah - i mean like - things like dill  and mint are like the classic sort of new potato partners you know -  but things like parsley when it's really good and fresh er - basil's lovely.  you could do coriander if you're in the mood.  just anything - any sort of delicate herb really.    this is an absolutely fantastic way to cook fish.  the trick is that is we make a tin foil envelope and we cook -  that means we cook everything in it -  got the herbs, got the fish - got the lemon juice -  we've got the oil and all these things cook away  and basically you've got your main course meal  and you've got the sauce all made for you.  roll out a bit of tin foil four times bigger than your fish right.  basically it's because  we're gonna double wrap  it just to be safe you know so it's a nice thick bag.  fold it in half like that  and then i've got a really nice fish.  it's a lovely sea bass.  and i went to the fishmonger and i've had it scaled  and gutted for me so i haven't got to do any of that malarkey.  it's about 2 pound which is more than enough for me and jules.  you normally - you lose about a pound like at least half in bones and stuff.  do you always make this dish with whole fish or could you use steaks?  oh you could use whatever you like - you can use cuts -  i like to use whole fish when i possibly can  because all the kind of bones within it kind of help to make the meat really tasty  and the juice really tasty and juicy as well you know.  so i'm must scoring it at an angle - not deeply at all -  just a little bit thinly and what i'm gonna do is  i'm gonna get a good pinch of salt  and i'm gonna sprinkle that on the fish on both sides -  i'm gonna kind of go against the grain and push that into those gaps.  and do that on both sides.  and that's to get in all that flavour right in there.  and then a good pinch of pepper on both sides and do exactly the same -  just push that right in there and you know that -  that's what it's all about really.  little things like that make things really, really tasty.  so what i need now is kind of the really delicate kind of flavour enhancers  and you can do what you like you know let your imagination take -  take you really, but i've got some bay leaves.  i've got this red onion.  i've got these bits of fennel  that were left over from the salad which were a bit stringy.  and some fresh basil which is good - really, really nice basil.  now what i'm gonna do is finely chop this fennel.  and we probably won't eat this fennel -  you could but we probably won't eat it  because you know i just want it to enhance the sauce really.  and then all you've gotta do is just mix it all up a bit and then make -  lay it all out - kind of equally over here.  pat it all down.  and then put the fish on top of it - like just like a trivet?  if you're roasting a bit of meat or something like that.  and just push it to one end.  why do you do that?  to keep the bottom of the -  the bottom side of the bass off all the liquor  and the juice cos you don't want it -  you don't want the top sort of steaming lovely and bottom kind of boiling away.  and i'm gonna peel - peel an onion and slice it really thinly  and these red onions seem to be nice and - and sweet.  and the thing about red onion as well -  when you cut it quite thinly and it's a really delicate taste.  just break it up a little bit and just kind put it all around -  and i tell you what we will do -  we'll put a little bit of salt in the cavity -  in the actual cavity of the fish -  just before we put anything inside it and then we'll shove some onion in there.  and just push all these things tight next to it  so they all kind of hug in it really.  and then what i want is i've got lovely basil -  you know i wanna stuff that cavity right full of lovely fresh herbs  and keep the stalks on - you can bruise 'em  or snap 'em or break 'em just to get the flavours going a bit.  but just stuff that right in there - full you know like well ott you know.  but just imagine all those flavours in the belly -  all kind of steaming as it cooks into the belly  and then you know all this around it making that lovely juice  which is so tasty.  and then pick all these bits of bay leaf - just kind of rip 'em over.  what other combinations of fish and flavouring could you make?  there's so many - you can just let your - just let your imagination go wild.  i mean - you can do like monk fish studded with anchovies - rosemary,  white wine, butter - you can do...?  ...with cherry tomatoes and olives - you can do salmon with asparagus and mint.  you can do - you can do cod with chick peas and chillie and lime and parsley.  you can do - give me another thing?  trout?  give me trout - smashed up thyme and lemon - very, very nice.  you know all wrapped up in a bag - goodness - cook 'em away.  they're all fantastic like that but you know  if you like two things together then think well can i incorporate it into the bag.  i mean this can be a simple or as complex as you want.  i mean if i just did this with like flat leaf parsley  and lemon it would still be gorgeous you know.  and no washing up either?  no just chuck it all away - no washing up.  and i like that cos i - you know i'm not partial to scrubbing i must admit.  nice lug of olive oil.  and what we want is a good knob of butter -  about a good two, three ounce knob of butter.  you can put it on it - inside of it - er - you know around it - whatever.  and then the final thing that makes it really really work -  is about two or three lemons -  two juicy ones of three if they're not so juice.  and this lemon's gonna - well it's gonna flavour it  but it's also gonna melt with the old butter  to make the most outrageous sauce you can imagine.  get it all on there.  all done -just push the old fish forward a little bit.  you can't really go wrong here unless you're really rough and you -  and you pierce the tin foil.  so fold it over in half - just like you would like an envelope or -  or a christmas present or something like that.  and push the two ends together  and then really tightly and firmly fold  cos you don't want this to leak.  right - and then you go to one end -  just until you can start to feel the flesh you know.  and then the last one  right  and then the last trick is just where you've folded it just kind of bring it up  so it's not kind of flopping onto the tray -  so there aren't any little gaps then it won't escape.  right and that's it - all done - all raring to go.  just gent... very, very carefully - you don't want to pierce it now -  put it onto the old tray - in the oven -  two pound fish - 16 minutes - so whack it in the oven -  when it comes out the oven the little trick is actually that -  let it rest for about three or four minutes.  let it chill out.  and that just makes it taste a lot better.  take it out to the table - it's all puffed up.  whip it open - steam ...  